VACCINATION versus NATURE ; OR, DR. JENNER'S THEORY REFUTED. PLINY, more poetical than practically philosophical ( like many other great men ), accounts for the formation of pearls by drops of dew falling into the valves of the oyster. It never occurred to him to ask whether oysters were ever exposed to the dew ; whether the drops could fall into their valves; whether oysters kept their valves open , except when under water ; or, finally, whether if the dew did fall in, it would remain a rounded drop ; the drop of dew had a certain superficial resemblance to the pearl, and that was enough. Increased knowledge through microscopal research tells us a very different tale ; though not quite so poetical, yet infinitely more instructive, giving us a much grander insight into the wisdom and power of the Creator. So it is with the greater part of mankind at the present day, in everything they see there is the super ficial resemblance of the pearl to the dew drop, and that is enough for them ; they draw a conclusion without a reference, they deduce from analogy, than which nothing can be more unfortunate where the interests and happi ness of the human race are at stake. To accept an hypothesis drawn from analogy ( such as an astronomical problem ), is not of vital consequence ; but when life and health are in the balance, when the comfort and happiness of the whole human race are under consideration, to accept that as a recognised law , which was merely drawn from analogy through the superficial observation of one weak mortal, is positively too serious in its results to be entertained for one moment by any really intellectual human being. Is it not a scandalous thing that people in this world who are gifted with common sense, and who have the necessary intel ligence requisite to escape the evils brought upon two thirds of mankind by their own wilful ignorance, stupidity, and folly, should , through a tyrannical law conceived in error, fostered in ignorance, and adopted by that passive indolence, characteristic of the unreflective portion of humanity - should, I say, notwithstanding their untiring energy in the great cause, have thrust upon them at one foul blow , all that which they have spent a lifetime in endeavouring to avoid ? The majority of the human race never take the trouble to reflect or think for themselves, but whatever hypothesis seems feasible, they are willing to accept secondhand, right or wrong, so long as it does not interfere with their worldly ease or luxury ; they sacrifice the interests of the whole human race to their lazy selfishness ; they do not care what pain of body or agony of mind is inflicted upon their fellow- creatures so long as they are not the sufferers. Is not this wilful ignorance ? When will men learn to seek at the fountain -head for the source of their know ledge ? When will men leave off cavilling with one another, because their imperfect laws, begotten in ig norance and nurtured in folly, fail to work the desired results ? When will they turn their face from the wall and spread out their hands towards the sun ? “ All the invaluable laws and methods of sanitary reform at best are but clumsy imitations of the unseen wonders which every animaculæ and leaf have been working since the world's foundation , with this slight difference between them and us, that they fulfil their appointed work and we do not. If the House of Commons would but summon one of the little paramecia from any Thames sewer -mouth, to give his evidence, Sanitary Blue Books, invaluable as they are, would be superseded for ever and 5 a day, and sanitary reformers would no longer have to confess that they know no means for the prevention of epidemic diseases." Mothers are patient, heaven be praised ; but not so patient as our great mother Nature — for silently as of old the great volume is spread out before us yearby year -no sound of impatience escapes the calm lips of Nature, quietly and lovingly, as at first, her finger points us to the words, written in the tender herb, the stately tree and glowing flower, even to our hearts, repeating the simple admonition - look, she knows we shall obey her when the time is come. In the meantime for the sake of suffering humanity, let us bring a little reflective reason ing to bear upon a more than superficial observation . When Nature lays down a law at the foundotion of her Creation, she never deviates from it, but that law stands perfect and unalterable for all time, for the very reason that the law is perfect in every way ; and if it were necessary to alter it, it would display an imperfection ; and if the law was imperfect at any time, it must have been imperfect from the first ; and that which was imperfect could not be perfect, and if it were not perfect it could not accomplish its end, and, therefore, it would never come into existence. The creation of an imperfect law in nature is an impossibility. But man is a being separate from the rest of nature by a free will, and governing himself and that by which he is surrounded with an imperfectly developed reason . a So long as man takes nature for his guide he will never go astray, but the moment he casts off the leading strings, and departs from the admonitions and teachings of the “ great mother, " so will his imperfectly developed reason lead him into trouble and confusion . Had nature laid down a law for the eradication or prevention of disease, by a process of inoculation, you would find such a law in daily operation. Also, recollect when nature creates a law it is perfect and universally applied, and if nature instituted a law for the pevention 6 or eradication of disease by a power of inoculation, that law would apply itself universally ; for disease is but one thing ( one species as it were) under varied forms, and therefore the law would applyitself to disease, no matter under what form it presented itself. There is, no doubt, an immense amount of disease in nature due to circum stances, and the action of vital and chemical forces. Wherever in consequence of some local or temporary cause, such as the crowding together of plants upon a soil not altogether fitted fortheir nourishment, so that by the action of atmospheric influences decomposition is induced by a process of fermentation, disease is sure to set in and the plants die. But is that any reason why plants of the same species growing a little farther off, on a proper soil, and under conditions thoroughly favor able to their growth and development, should be inocu lated with the putrid azotised matter from the diseased plants, to save them from a like fate ? If so , I am bound to say, the means would frustrate the end . What frightful state of affairs we should soon arrive at, if some evil influence was constantly rushing throughout all nature, inoculating every healthy production on the face of the earth with putrid matter, to save it from the possibility of disease. Thank heaven nature knows better. Man only works in a limited sphere ; the evil he produces, more especially upon his fellow-creatures, is something fearful and lamentable to think of ; and if he had the power to work throughout all nature on the same principle, the world would soon return to its original chaos. Given : a healthy production of nature, under favor able circumstances, following out its harmonious ist ence under favorable laws, it performs its allotted work with vigor and strength, and departs at its allotted time, leaving behind it a healthy and vigorous race. Given : an unhealthy natural production, not living under favor able circumstances, it disappears before its allotted time by a process of natural selection. But there is no law 7 in nature by which the introduction of disease into the animal or vegetable body will either prevent or eradicate disease . If a body is diseased it requires a thoroughly healthy action (a negative) to eradicate the seeds of disease. To introduce disease into a healthy production a of nature, either to prevent or eradicate disease, is as absurd in idea as it is lamentable in practice, and to pass a law to compel intellectual beings, who emanate from virtuous families of sound constitution ( families who have made the science of life their study, and who have escaped the diseases common to two- thirds of mankind, and who have lived from generation to generation to a good old age ), to compel these to introduce foul diseases into pure blood, is an act of ignorant tyranny which no intelligent being will for one moment put up with . Time and increased histological knowledge will prove the utter absurdity of such a doctrine. I have no doubt thousands who have paid little or no attention to nature, are ready to clamour forth - this is all theory unsupported by facts. So was Dr. Jenner's hypothesis all theory un supported by facts, and such it is to the present day ; for statistics are not facts, and even they may be made entirely to refute that which they are represented to support. But a naturalist does not base his reasoning upon theory but upon actual observation . a Before proceeding, let us suppose for a moment that vaccination is capable of producing the effect ascribed to it. Put a number of human beings into dirty courts and stinking alleys, crowd them together in small, ill-venti lated apartments, let them totally disregard every pre scribed law of nature - let them eat and drink all sorts of bad or unwholesome food , till their cellular tissue becomes lax, till their blood becomes inflamed and in an unhealthy state, they become fit subjects according to a fixed law of nature (which I will eventually prove) for the growth and development of certain organisms, every where lying hid throughout nature , only waiting for a proper nidus to jump into existence, for the carrying out 8 a great and wise law , from which man notmore than any other natural production is exempt. To save these people (who totally disregard the teachings of the great mother ) from the dreadful effects of disease brought on by their own stupidity, we will suppose for a moment that by the introduction of disease in a mild form , they will escape the effects of the disease in its more virulent form . Is that any reason why individuals not labouring under such a complication of evils, and who are perfectly healthy, because living under and by influences calcu lated to produce sound health, and who, according to another fixed law of nature, could not by any possible a means form a nidus for the growth and production of the before-mentioned organisms? Is that any reason why they who would in the orninary course of nature escape the evils which the unhealthy ones were subject to - is that any reason why they should have forced upon them by artificial means, that which by the laws laid down at the foundation of the world they would naturally escape ? To make this plain I must beg the reader's attention while I let him into the secrets of a study, to which I have paid considerable attention, viz ., the Microscopic Fungi, a subject the proper understanding of which is of vital importance to the human race, and has to bear upon our present inquiry. The Microscopic Fungi are a class of cellular flowerless plants, growing in or upon the wood and the herbaceous parts of living or dead plants, and in or upon living or decaying animal substances, &c. & c. They are very minute,but remarkably prolific, affording extraordinary instances of the vast number of distinct individual lives, which can be accumulated in an exceedingly small space. According to estimates deduced from the most careful investigations, it has been ascertained that a single cubic inch will contain a progeny of more than two hundred and nineteen thousand five hundred and twenty trillion spores or germs of vegetation , a number not only greater than that of all the human beings, but of all the warm 9 blooded animals that ever lived upon the earth since the moment of its creation . In consequence of their minuteness they are dispersed through the atmosphere not like smoke merely, but like invisible vapour. The question is naturally asked - Why this prodigious fecundity ? why this immense profusion ? The answer is this. Existing only by the absorption of fætid exhala tions, and rapidly depriving them of their insalubrious properties, they execute duties analogous to those of certain tribes of insects, and in this respect have been appropriately associated with these animals as the sca vengers of nature. How disgusting to the eye, how offensive to the smell, would be the whole face of nature, were the vast quantity of putrid and decaying matter daily falling to the earth from various sources, suffered to remain until gradually dissolved by the rain , or de composed by the elements. That it does not thus offend us we are indebted to inconceivable hosts of scavengers, both animal and vegetable, which attack at the moment it falls, and speedily consumeall the liquid and noisome particles, leaving nothing but the dry dust behind, which is soon scattered by the winds. With regard to the Fungi a difference of opinion exists among naturalists, as to whether they are the cause or effect of disease. Some think that the spores of the Fungi coming into contact with the plant, &c. , act both as the predisposing and exciting cause ; others, without doubt more correctly, think that some change is first produced in the cells of the plant, which enables the spores to form a nidus, and then the disease goes on rapidly, assuming a peculiar type on account of the presence of the Fungus, in the same way that vegetable organisms found in diseases of the human body, are not to be looked upon as the origin of the disease, but as being developed in textures previously morbid , and as giving often a peculiar character to the disease. BERKELEY attributes the potatoe disease entirely to fungi; with all due deference to so learned an authority, I beg to differ. The view which seems to be most con 10 sonant with the phenomena is, that changes are induced bycultivation in the cells of the potatoe which renders it liable to disease, atmospheric influences are thus enabled to act upon it, so as to cause alteration in its cells, putrefying azotised matter accumulates, and is carried to all parts of the plant, causing a struggle between vital and chemical forces, inducing decomposition by a process of fermentation ; the azotised matter in a condition to act as ferment is produced by the state of the season , deficiency of light, rainy weather, and other meteorolo gical causes ; the moment decomposition sets in , the spores of the fungi, true to their instinct, awake to their work . So let it be clearly understood , that their province is not to cut down the strength, or impede the healthy growth or action of any one production of nature, for that would display an imperfection in the system , altogether inconsistent with and unworthy of its divine origin. It is only when in consequence of a local or temporary cause some organic being, or part of an organic being, is in excess of what the healthy condition of its specie can bear in the proper balance of the system , and is therefore unwholesome; in short, when putrefaction would ensue and produce either a poisoning or a waste, that the spore of the fungus awakens to its duty. Now I have always noticed in my search after para sitic fungi, that it was perfectly useless to go andlook for themon those plants which were growing under the proper conditions assigned to them by nature ; but if I wished to be successful, I must seek for them on those plants growing under conditions fatal to their well-being. Plants naturally delighting in a pure air, dry soil and sunlight, when growing under the dark shadow of a tree or hedge, closely packed in and surrounded by rank vegetation, with superabundant moisture, would be sure to afford specimens of fungi natural to the species, and the same plants a little farther off growing under con ditions necessary for the perfection of the species, would 11 never afford a single specimen of their appropriate para site . What reasoning are we to draw from such a case ? Why, that the plants attacked by the fungi have become diseased through the means previously explained, and by a wise law they are being speedily removed from the face of the earth . Now when I find a number of plants incidentally placed under such unfavourable circum stances, would it be plausible if I wished to save them from destruction ? Would it be plausible, I say, to take the putrid matter out of the already diseased plants, and inoculate those which were not yet attacked, in the idea that by diseasing their tissue in a mild form they would escape annihilation ? I think not. Such a course of action would prove fatal to the well-being of the plants ; but if I removed them to a habitation more adapted to their nature, where they could inspire pure air, where they could come more under the influence of sunlight, where the soil was drained of its superfluous moisture, where it was not choked by two great abundance of its fellow-plants, and where the soil was thoroughly adapted to their proper nourishment, I think I should be more successful in eradicating disease from the already sickly plants, as also in preventing those which were not touched from contamination , than if I abandoned them to the unnatural influences to which they were subjected, and doubly increased their danger by adding poisonous matter to their already diseased tissue, ensuring a more speedy dissolution of the uncontaminated byartificial contamination . * As it is with plants, so it is with human beings ; crowd them together in dark , damp, unwholesome places, where the sunlight of heaven can scarcely penetrate, where their poverty precludes them from obtaining the * Since writing the above, I bave ascertained that Mr. KNIGHT, of Herefordshire, has stopped the attacks of “ Æcidium cancellatum " by taking up his mildewed pear trees, washing their roots clean , pruning them closely, and removing them to a new situation. Those removed became healthy — those left in the soil eventually perished . 12 proper nourishment appointed by nature for their growth and development; life slackens, slow death commences, decomposition by a process of fermentation takes place. Then come forthfrom their hidingplaces the invisible hosts the servants of God, to perform their appointed work, AND NO MATTER WHAT FORM THEY TAKE, THE END IS THE SAME ; and man , proud man , must pay the penalty in common with the lowliest herb of the field. Think of this, oh ! man , and say, Is the teaching of the Great Mother to be despised ? Will you still go on in blind ig norance, laughing to scorn the loving admonitions of the great and universal Teacher ! Or, will you reform your Sanitary laws and work in harmony, according to the rules and regulations written on every page of the Great Volume daily spread out before you ? Any intelligent mind, capable of understanding the question, having followed me thus far, will find the case stands thus - That we have not to do with the law of inoculation as laid down by man , deduced from imperfect observation by an imperfectly developed reason ( statistical facts, observations and experiments on such a law , though a they were legion, would only tend to make confusion worse confused) : - but we have to do with those perfect laws which we see every day at work around us, and which were laid down with the foundation of the world for the regulating of life, health, disease, and death, and which are so formed as to work for the well-being of the general system of nature, and to keep ever true that mysterious balance of which the Creator holds the beam in his own hands, and which has been so beautifully maintained ever since the universe started into being, The laws which regulate the life, health, disease, and death of the animal and vegetable world , are exactly the same — there not being so much difference between an animal and a vegetable as the uneducated mind is apt to suppose ; in fact, mi croscopical investigation has proved that the two king doms amalgamate at a certain point, and our knowledge even at the present day is not sufficient to inform us where the one begins and the other ends. 13 Given :-a healthy production of nature, animal or vegetable, existing under circumstances favourable to the perfection of its species, it lives its allotted time in full vigour, health, and strength, and departs at its allotted time, leaving behind it a perfectly healthyand vigorous race . Now is there anyconsistency, is there any thing which can uphold for one moment such a doc trine as trying to prevent a thoroughly healthy produc tion from getting a disease, which by virtue of its forma tion and position in the scheme of creation it could never get ? If you will allow the fact, than which you cannot do otherwise, it being self- evident that to inoculate a thoroughly healthy production of nature, which has no disease, and by nature of the laws which regulate its existence, could not possibly become diseased, is an utter absurdity, then Dr. JENNER’S THEORY FALLS TO THE GROUND. For if it be wrong to inoculate a healthy production to prevent disease, to inoculate an unhealthy one is entirely out of the question . Our knowledge most certainly informs us that disease in the natural productions of the world, be they animal or vegetable, is brought on by accidental circumstances, whereby the said productions are not living in accord ance with those laws laid down by their Creator for their perfect development; therefore, the most rational mode of procedure (I think every intelligent mind will allow ) towards restoring those productions of nature which have accidentally got out of their habit, and are living under influences fatal to their perfection , would be, I presume, to ascertain those fixed laws which govern the healthy development of the said productions, and immediately remove them from the evil influences to which they are subjected, and bring them under the action of those in fluences, those fixed and unutterable laws, which na turally tend to the perfection of the species. If still left under the influenceof those laws which were formed by the Creator to keep the balance ever true, and which our knowledge undeniably teaches us, were instituted for 14 the instant removal of those natural productions, and mal or vegetable, which through unavoidable external circumstances, had accidentally become diseased - I say, if the said productions were left under the influence of the said laws, by the very nature of those laws, sooner or later - according to the position in the scale of life they occupy -- their demolition and removal must be inevitable. Therefore the system of inoculation in such a case is self evidently absurd. Anyone, after carefully reading what I have stated, will see - Firstly, that disease can only affect those who have, by the violation of natural laws, reduced themselves to a low state of vitality, which causes the forces that govern the laws of decomposition and death to be in the ascendancy? ; and therefore they must, by virtue of the laws regulating the removal of diseased productions, pay the penalty of their foolishness. Secondly, that those who follow out and act up to the laws which govern their healthy growth and development by virtue of the said laws, putthemselves beyond the possibility of con tracting disease. You will find it clear, therefore, from what I have said , that where human beings have disobeyed the laws of nature , and have laid themselves open to the laws re gulating the removal of diseased productions, they engender disease. What consistency is there, then, in giving more disease to the human body which, through the position it is already placed in , is unfortunately so much diseased, that nature by virtue of her law is taking measures to remove it. If the system of inocu lation wereapplied in such a case only, it would ac tually be helping nature out in her work of destruction but, unfortunately, through the system of inoculation, diseases are spread to those beings who, by virtue of their position in the scheme of Creation, and the laws regulating their existence , could not possibly contract disease. Persons only partially acquainted with the subject 1 15 may wonder at the idea of fungi having anything to do with human diseases; but it is a question for the future, and a question which every fresh microscopic investiga tion tends to confirm , whether all morbid structures affecting the human body, external or internal, do not owe their special characters to the presence of Fungi - not that the fungi are the origin of diseases - their pro vince being to attack morbid structures - the said mor bid structures, wherever or on whatever they appear, form a proper nidus for the growth and development of the parasites, they being appointed by God for the re moval of diseased productions, &c. , from the face of nature. It is not necessary for any animal or vegetable to be wholly diseased, they follow out their instinct where ever the necessary conditions are supplied ; and if part of an organic being becomes diseased, no matter from what cause, by virtue of the law which governs them , the proper nidus having been formed, they instantly lay hold of it and wrestle to exterminate it - a diseased structure of any sort whatever being baneful to the har mony and well-being of the generalsystem of nature. Our knowledge on this subject at the present day is very limited ; but all our microscopic investigations, so far as we have gone, tend to confirm this view . Dipthe ritic sore throat owes its character to a fungus, “ Odium Albicans." In a certain deranged condition of the human stomach, we find “ Sarcina Ventriculi ,” “ Torula Diabetica," is found in disease of the human bladder. Cancer owes its character to fungoid growth ; ringworm , and many others too numerous to mention, owe their character to fungoidgrowths likewise. Such discoveries lead us to believe that it will be ne cessary in the future, first, to ascertain the nature of the parasite that gives the peculiar character to the disease ; then the means required for its destruction and removal : and until our knowledge reaches such a state of perfec tion , all those diseaseswhich still baffle the skill of the medical man will, doubtless, continue to do so . I fervently hope the intelligent people of our country will think seriously over all that has been said, and take as speedy measures as possible to wipe from the face of the earth one of the greatest scourges that it was ever visited with, through the ignorance,folly, stupidity, and shortsightedness of man ; for, recollect, the work of ino culation, not always visible on the surface, carries with it an invisible undercurrent, which is sapping and mining the very pith and core of the human race. If in spite of this warning - oh ! foolish man - you feel still inclined in the hardness of your heart - in the blindness of your ignorance, to transgress the laws of God , to impiously interfere with the nice adjustment of the mysterious balance, do so at your peril, and pay the penalty of your foolishness. But in the meantime, strike out your legislative error, and dont force your punish ments uponthose who have sense enough to escape the evils you have brought uponyourself by your ownigno rance and folly. Spare a little of your time from the worship of the golden calf, and study the Volume spread out daily before your eyes, and you will then be more capable of judging whether such absurd notions as  vaccination  or inoculation should ever be entertained for a single instant. One word more before concluding. Cancel the Act for “ Compulsory Vaccination ,” and insert in its place Compulsory Education, and time will prove that it will not only be a better preventative of  smallpox , but aа surer safeguard against “ all the ills that flesh is heir to. " ELLIOT, Printer, “ The West-End News" offico, 48, Devonshire-street, W.C. BRITIES PERARE 