The following important Letters have been addressed to The BRITISH COLLEGE OF HEALTH , EUSTON ROAD, LONDON. Mount PLEASANT, DARLINGTON, January 24, 1860. DEAR SIRS, I observe that Boards of Guardians are in various places taking steps to enforce Vaccination. I enclose two letters, which, being published simultaneously in three local papers, had the effect of stopping the arbitrary proceedings of our Board. If you can make any use of them, I shall have pleasure in placing them at your service. I remain, yours truly, MESSRS. MORISON. GEORGE S. GIBBS. To the Board of Guardians for Darlington Union. 9 GENTLEMEN . - Observing the publication of a large placard headed “Compulsory Vaccination ,” and signed “ By Order ” of yourselves, the object of such publication being to frighten poor and ill-informed parents into submitting their children to the poisoned lancet of the vaccinator, I now respectfully beg leave to protest, as a ratepayer , against the expenditure of the public money to support or extend a pernicious and cruel system of quackery, against which , as an Englishman and a parent, I have always protested ; and against which I will ever continue to protest, and exert my utmost influence. And I protest against compulsory vaccination, 1. Because vaccinators are not agreed as to the proper mode of performing the operation. 2 Some contend for the infliction of several bloody wounds, while others are satisfied with a single puncture of the outer cuticle. 2. Because they also differ respecting the proper time for performing the operation. The Act requires its performance within three months after birth, while many medical men ( including, as I have been informed , the vaccinator standing first on your list ) are of opinion that vaccination within the first year is of no use whatever. 3. Because they also differ as to the time which must elapse before it can be known whether the operation has been properly performed or not. The Act requires the child to be brought to the vaccinator (at the risk of catching fatal cold ) “ upon the eighth day following the day on which the child has been vaccinated, in order that he may ascertain by inspection the result of such operation , " and obtain lymph for future use ; while the President of the Royal Jennerian Institution of London , asserts in his Report for the year 1853, that it is impossible to ascertain the result until after the lapse of fifteen days, and B. De B. Hovell, F.R.C.S. states, at page 151 of a Parliamentary paper , issued by the General Board of Health, entitled, “ Papers relating to the History and Practice of Vaccination ,” as his “ decided opinion , that not only is the power of the lymph impaired when taken after 168 hours, but, also , that the protective power of the lymph is maintained, and even improved, by being taken on the 7th, or even 6th day.” 4. Because vaccination, however performed, is entirely useless as a preventative of smallpox. In the returns of deaths made by the Registrar-General for the week ending June11th, 1859, is the following entry : - “ Hampstead. At Kilburn , on the hth of June, a brewer's labourer, aged 48 years, ' petechial smallpox after vaccination performed twice, and once taking cowpox from milking an affected cow. ' During a period of 16 years, from 1836 to 1851 inclusive, there were admitted into the Smallpox Hospital of London, 5797 patients, of whom 3994 or 53-4 per cent. were “ protected , ” and of whom 268 or 8-67 per cent. died. Dr. Copland, in his Dictionary of Practical Medicine, writes : - " Just half-a -century has elapsed since the discovery and introduction of vaccination ; and after a quarter- of-a - century of most transcendental laudation of the measure, with merely occasional whisperings of doubt, and after another quarter -of-a - century of reverberated encomiums from well-paid vaccination boards, raised with a view of overbearing the increasing murmurings of disbelief among those who observe and think for themselves, the middle of the nineteenth century finds the majority of the profession in all latitudes and hemispheres, doubtful as to the preponderance of advantages present and prospective, to be obtained from inoculation or vaccination .” 5. Because the reliance placed by medical men on the supposed efficacy of vaccination has induced them to neglect the study of smallpox, with a view diminishing mortality by its more efficient treatment. At page 130 of the Parliamentary paper before referred to, Dr. Hamernik, of Prague, states, that by pursuing a certain course of treatment, he reduced the mortality among the patients in the smallpox ward of his hospital to 5 per cent. And among the petitions presented to Parliament, in the year 1856, is one from the late Mr. Thomas Rose, of Dorking , in which it is stated that he had attended upwards of 3000 smallpox patients, of whom only one died ; the medicine on which he relied being cream of tartar, in some cases combined with rhubarb. Mr. Rose also states, that he found his vaccinated patients as difficult to cure as the unvaccinated. 6. Because vaccination , useless at any time, performed in the presence of an epidemic, either of smallpox or any other disease, promotes its diffusion by lowering the vital energy, which, if maintained unimpaired, would have enabled the system to resist the pestilential influence. Dr. Michell, M.P. for Bodmin, taking this view , characterized the Compulsory Vaccination Bill, when before the House of Commons, as a Bill for legalizing murder." Thomas Hayes Jackson , M.D., in a letter addressed to the Editor of the Darlington and Stockton Times, dated April 3rd, 1855 , gives an illustration. He writes : - “ Some time ago I was called to attend a boy named Richmond, residing in King Street, who had been labouring under confluent smallpox one week previous to my visit. Perceiving in the same house two more children not vaccinated, after some demur on the part of the parents, I vaccinated them both successfully ; soon afterwards both were attacked with smallpox.” It is the same with measles, scarlatina, &c . , so that Dr. Gregory, finding the total number of deaths by eruptive fevers undiminished by vaccination, propounded the “ law of vicarious mortality to account for the fact. 7. Because other diseases than cowpox are transmitted from person to person by vaccination , and no amount of knowledge on the part of the vaccinator will enable him to guard against this evil. At page 125 of the Parliamentary paper before referred to, Mr. R. Ceely, of Aylesbury, states: - “ I have known erythema and erysipelas propagated from irritable or ruptured, or late or exhausted vesicles , or from apparently healthy vesicles in a child who had a blister behind the ear. I have also known impetigo and ecthyma result from genuine lymph from a healthy subject transferred to an apparently healthy skin , these troublesome diseases superseding the vaccine altogether.” Mr. J. Millard, M.R.C.S.L., L S. A. , and H.E.I.C.S., in a letter addressed 3 to the Editor of the British Ensign, dated, “ York Place, Clifton, April 27, 1859,” states, that a disease “latent in the person from whom the lymph is taken , may, with that lymph, be transferred to the person vaccinated, and be developed in that person .” B. De B. Hovell, F.R.C.S., before quoted, states, that “ the same lymph will produce a normal vesicle in one child, and one attended by severe inflammation and eruption in another.” 8. Because the introduction of a disease into the system cannot destroy or eliminate another disease supposed to be in existence. It can only obstruct or retard its development, or cause it to take some other form . 9. Because such interference with the ordinary course of nature has an injurious effect upon the public health . Dr. Copland writes, in his dictionary, “ It cannot be doubted that vaccination favours the prevalence of the several forms of scrofula .” Drs. Barthez and Rilliett many years since, published the results of their researches, demonstrating the intimate connexion between vaccination and tubercular consumption : and Dr. Quain states, at page 94 of the Parliamentary paper before referred to , as the result of a special inquiry respecting the patients in a public hospital suffering from phthisis, that 70 per cent. had been vaccinated. 10. Because so considerable a minority as 48 per cent of the population ,a minority happily increasing with rapidity, is entitled to more decent and respectful treatment than an endeavour by threat of fine to bully them into action contrary to their deliberate and conscientious convictions. In 1853, the vaccinations performed were to the births in the proportion of 33 per cent. ; in 1854, 65 ; in 1855, 56 ; in 1856, 54 ; in 1857, 52. ( See Lord Granville's speech in the House of Lords, March 7.) 11. Because vaccination is, in itself, exceedingly dangerous, and not unfrequently results in the death of the patient. The returns of the Registrar General for the weeks ending June 11 and June 18, 1859, afford instances :~ " Pancras, Somers Town.--At 44, Little George -street, on the 31st of May, the son of a glass- cutter aged six months ; ' vaccination (15 days), erysipelas ( 14 days). Newington, 'Trinity.- At 3, Winter Terrace, on the 13th of June, a girl, aged four months; ' erysipelas after vaccination ; diarrhæa .' 12. Because it is the paramount duty of parents, blessed with healthy offspring, to maintain them in the highest possible state of health. 13. Because parents have a natural and constitutional right to supreme authority respecting the medical treatment of their children, When Sir Robert Peel was asked to support an attempt to make vaccination compulsory, he objected, remarking that “ such a proceeding would be so opposed to the mental habits of the British people and the freedom of opinion in which they rightly gloried, that he could be no party to such compulsion." 14. Because the law destroys this constitutional right, and places parents who perform all the duties appertaining to good citizenship in the position of criminals. 15. Because English parents ought to have, at least, as much liberty of judgment as French soldiers. “ RE -VACCINATION. M. Larry reports, that in șixty men of the French army re vaccinated at Toulouse, serious symptoms of a typhoid and erysipelatous nature ensued as a consequence in nine of them . He advises the Minister of War, that in future only a small number of men of a regiment should be vaccinated at once, so that they may not be forced to return immediately to their duty ; that only those de bonne volontè (OF FREE WİLL) shall be vaccinated ; that the operation should only be performed in spring or autumn, and not in the hot season ; that the re-vaccinated should be kept quiet from work for a week . ” Medical Times, ܕ and Times, of Monday, September 13, 1858. 16. Because, were it true, as asserted by Jenner, in his petition to Parliament, presented on the 17th March, 1802, “ that the cowpox admits of being inoculated on the human frame with the most perfect ease and safety, and is attended with the singularly beneficial effect of rendering through life the persons so inoculated perfectly secure from smallpox," there would ,after fifty years' experience, be no need of a compulsory law, nor for the payment of fees out of public money. 17. Because in places on the continent, where vaccination has been more generally practiced and more fully enforced, public funds are no longer expended on it. 18. Because there is nothing to prevent those who act in obedience to medical despotism , or the prejudices of education, from “ protecting " themselves by having the operation performed as often as they pleased . 19. Because hundreds of thousands of pounds of public money have disappeared through the insatiate maws of Jenner and his disciples, and it is now high time to stop the supplies. Trusting that you will find, in the importance of the subject, a sufficient excuse for troubling you at so great a length. I am, Gentlemen, respectfully, Mount PLEASANT, DARLINGTON, GEORGE S. GIBBS. July 13, 1859. + DARLINGTON UNION, DARLINGTON, July 28 , 1859. Sir ,-- I am instructed by the Guardians of this Union to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 13th instant, and to refer you to the 4th and 5th Vic. cap. 32. I am, your obedient, humble servant, WILLIAM ROBINSON, Union Clerk. To the Board of Guardians for Darlington Union. GENTLEMEN, —I am obliged by your letter of the 28th ult., in which you acknowledge the receipt of mine of the 13th, protesting against the expenditure of public money to support or extend a system of tyrannical scarification and poisoning of helpless infants, and refer me to the 4th and 5th Vic. , cap. 32. As this Act was passed in 1841, and Vaccination was not made compulsory until 1853, twelve years later, it may not be wrong to consider this reference as an appeal in general from  founded on the regard due to the feelings and opinions of your neighbours, to the letter of the law, for the justification of your recent proceedings. On the 1st of July, you issued a large placard, headed “ Compulsory Vaccination ,” requesting “ Parents of Children ,” and all other persons, to take notice of the provisions of the several Acts of the 3rd and 4th and 16th and 17th years of the reign of Queen Victoria. Then follow the names of the public vaccinators for the Union. You then quote sections of the 16th and 17th Vict. , the Compulsory Vaccination Act of 1853, the penalty of twenty shillings being set out in conspicuous type. Sections of the 4th and 5th and 3rd and 4th Vic., are then quoted, and the closing paragraph is , — “ It is the duty of all persons, therefore, not only to avoid committing the offence of creating smallpox by inoculation or otherwise, but to give information to the magistrates, or some peace-officer, of any person who shall have been guilty of the offence, and also of any one who neglects to have his or her children vaccinated within the time limited by law, in order that effectual means may be taken for the protection of the public. ” On the 14th of July, and by way of answer ( as I have been informed) to my protest of the 13th, you issued another placard in red type, in which you gave notice that you have instructed your officers to take proceedings against parents who neglect or refuse to have their children vaccinated. You have also caused an advertisement to this effect to be inserted in the “ Darlington and Stockton Times. ” So much for recent local history, now for the law. The Act of 1840 ( 3 and 4 V., c. 20) , entitled, “ An Act to extend the Practice of Vaccination . " 9 empowers and directs Poor Law Guardians to contract with their medical officers for the vaccination of all persons resident in such Unions who wished for gratuitous vaccination . On the passing of this act, two questions arose, (1 ) whether the money raised for the relief of the poor was applicable for the purpose ? and (2) whether the recipients of gratuitous public vaccination would not be disqualified for certain acts, in the same manner as other recipients of public charity ? The Act of 1841 (4 and 5 V., c. 32), entitled • An Act to amend an Act to extend the Practice of Vaccination ,” to which you particularly refer, was enacted to settle these points, and declares that vaccination fees are payable out of the poor -rates, and that persons vaccinated at the public expense shall not be deemed recipients of public charity. The Act of 1853 ( 16 and 17 V., c. 100 ), entitled “ An Act to extend and make Compulsory the Practice of Vaccination ,” directs Guardians ( sec. 1 ) to divide parishes or unions into vaccination districts, and appoint vaccination stations. It also compels them (sec. 6 ) to pay not less than 1s. 6d. or 2s. Ed ., according to distance, for every vaccination performed. It also enacts (sec. 9) that a sum not exceeding 20s. shall be forfeited on failure to vaccinate according to a notice to be delivered by the registrar, and ( sec. 12) , that such penalty “ shall be recoverable before any two justices of the peace.” But it does not impose on any person or body corporate the obligation of bringing persons so failing to comply with the requirements of the notice before the two justices . These are the vaccination Acts proper, or so much of them as affects Boards of . Guardians ; but in the Public Health Act of last year there was introduced, by a sort of parliamentary legerdemain, in which intriguing officials are adepts, a clause, enabling Vaccinators to prosecute, under the act of 1853 ,and recover their expenses out of the poor-rates .Vaccinators, however, shrink from bringing odium on their profession by the performance of their own dirty work, and the only prosecutions have been where they have cajoled Boards of Guardians into doing it for them by an entirely arbitrary assumption of authority. This clause is repealed by the Public Health Act just passed, and you will now perhaps see how complete a failure your appeal to the letter of the law is, for the law nowhere requires you to expend money committed to your care for the relief or maintenance of the poor, in publicly asserting, contrary to fact, that extension of cowpox and extermination of smallpox are convertible terms, or that the practice of vaccination is equivalent to the protection of the public. The law nowhere requires you to spend public money in instructing all persons that it is their duty to become spies and informers. That the law nowhere requires you to expend public money in disgracing the walls of the town by flaming bills announcing that you will prosecute, or persecute , all your neighbours who presume to hold an opinion different to your own on a disputed point of medical practice; and finally, the law nowhere empowers you to expend public money, not even a single shilling, in carrying your threat into execution. I am , Gentlemen, respectfully, August 1st, 1859. ВBOL Mount PLEASANT, DARLINGTON, GEORGE S. GIBBS. 