FEVER AND CONSUMPTION, AND AS A TRANSMITTER OF ALL KINDS OF DISEASE. DIALOGUE BETWEEN A MOTHER AND HER DAUGHTER. Daughter: Mother, what is vaccination ? Mother : Vaccination, my dear, was introduced by a Dr. Jenner about the year 1798. It consists in taking a putrid matter called lymph from a child's arm , and then introducing it into the blood . This Dr. Jenner had observed that the milk maids in the county where he lived (Gloucestershire) were not subject to attacks of the smallpox, and he came to think that the matter which these milkmaids got from the cows in milking them was the reason that they did not take the smallpox . Daughter : And was this the only reason why vaccination was introduced ? Was it possible for Dr. Jenner to have made so many experiments as to satisfy himself of the truth of his discovery ? But, mother, what was done for smallpox before vaccination ? Mother : Well, my dear, before then we had inoculation which was introduced by Lady Wortley Montagu about the year 1720. She had been in Turkey, and had seen that the people there gave the disease itself of smallpox to a healthy child, in order, as they said, to protest'that' Child having the smallpox afterwards, and that was called " inoculation . ” So that you see now the difference between inoculation and vaccination. Daughter : Well - but, mother, if inoculation was so good for the smallpox, how came we to give it up ? Mother : My dear, it was found, during a practice of nearly eighty years, that inoculation was a great mistake – that it did not prevent the smallpox and, worsethan all, that manythousands were infected with the smallpox who might never have had it ; it was the cause of so many people being marked , for you will bear in mind that we inoculated everybody with it. Daughter : What a terrible thing to have done ! How came the doctors to allow such a thing to go on for eighty years ? Mother : That I can't tell you ; they ought to have known better. Well, as I told you before, vaccination took the place of inoculation , but this vaccination is now found to be as bad, if not worse, than inoculation ; because it is nothing but putrid matter, which, getting into the blood, transmits diseases from one to the other almost beyond calculation . Daughter : What a terrible thing ! Have I been vaccinated , a then ,mother ? Mother : I am sorry to say you have, dear. Your father was ed by the doctors to believe that vaccination was a good and proper thing to do, and so, in spite of all I could say to him , he would have you vaccinated . Daughter : If I had known all about this putrid matter called vaccine, and could have objected to it, I should have done so. Shall I ever be free from it, mother ? Mother : No one can tell that, my dear. You may escape ; but those who have paid much attention to vaccination say that when once the matter gets into the blood, it poisons it, and afterwards is very likely to end in fever and consumption, and all kinds of blood diseases, as they are called . However, Ipray to God that you may escape its effects. Daughter : But, mother, who was it that first wrote against vaccination ? Mother : It was Mr. Morison, the Hygeist of the British College of Health, London, who, in 1825, published his book, the “ Morisoniana,” and he there told all the world that vaccine lymph was nothing but putrid matter, and therefore a poisoner of the blood . He, at the same time, told us, that all our diseases proceed from impurity of the blood , and therefore on that . 3 ground he set his face completely against vaccination , which poisons the blood. Daughter : Well, that looks consistent, at all events, mother, and I think that Mr. Morison is right; but what does he say about the smallpox the cause of it, I mean ? Mother : Well, my dear, he says that it is nothing more than : an effort of nature to get rid of impurities, like any other fever ; and that it should be treated by such a medicine as his which, you know , is a vegetable purgative of transcendent efficacy as you would treat any other fever ; and that, if you do so, the party attacked by smallpox will not only get cured , but will not be marked . The marking and deaths from smallpox all proceed from the bad treatment of doctors with their stimu lants and stuffing system . Daughter : But does Mr. Morison prove by cases that it is so ? Mother : Yes, my dear. His book, the “ Morisoniana," is filled with such cases. Daughter : Well, mother, but why don't the people follow Mr. Morison's book ? Mother : Well, my child , the doctors are all interested in keeping the truth away from the world, and therefore they have done all they can to prejudice Mr. Morison and his vegetable universal medicine. This question about smallpox affects the doctors most seriously ; for what will the public say when they find out that the doctors have been poisoning them during the last seventy years, in order to put money into their pockets, by creating disease through their vaccination ? Daughter : Oh ! mother, don't say so. What a horrible thing to say about the doctors that we have so long trusted ! Are all doctors of the same way of thinking ? Mother : No, my dear. Of late some doctors have come for ward against vaccination , and the principal one is Dr. Collins, : now residing at 1 , Albert-terrace, Regent's Park, London, who was public vaccinator for the parish ofSt. Pancras during twenty years, and he tells us the horrible things he saw during that period produced by vaccination . They were so shocking to him that he was obliged to give up the appointment of public vaccinator. Duughter : Well, mother, such a man was in a position to know, its bad effects during twenty years. But, mother, who was Mr. Morison ? Mother : A private gentleman, descended from one of the first families in the north of Scotland. John Morison, for many years member of Parliament for Banffshire, was his brother. He was not bred a doctor, but was very ill for many years of his life, until he cured himself by his own medicine. You must read his book, the “ Morisoniana,” and then you will know all about it, and the simple laws upon which our health depends. Daughter : But, mother, if my blood has been poisoned by vaccination , what shall I do to get it right again ? Mother : Well, as to that, much would depend upon the : poison or the disease conveyed by vaccination . At all events the only chance would be by following Mr. Morison's system , and taking his medicine. Daughter: But would not a similar medicine do aswell, mother ? Mother : No doubt it would, dear, if it is similar. Of late years many persons have introduced pills upon Mr. Morison's system , and the doctors by their false vaccination have been the cause of making the fortunes of many of these pill-makers ; for, as the doctors created disease by vaccination, and people came to find out that, after paying them heavily for their fees, they derived no benefit from their services, they discarded them , and took to the numerous pills you see advertised in the news papers ; but they are all in imitation of Mr. Morison's. Daughter : So that the doctors have unwittingly been the cause of making the great fortunes which, we are told , have been made by these adventurers ? Mother : Of course they have, my dear ; because if doctors had been right and told the TRUTH, these pill-makers could never have succeeded in the way they have ; but as they have followed Mr. Morison's system , which is true, the consequence has been that doctors are falling and must fall from day to day. To prove this, the Lancet some years ago said that if Mr. Morison was not put down, the doctors would be ruined , and it is now coming to that, because the public see that Mr. Morison's system is the only true way of treating diseases. It was quite out of the question that Mr. Morison could support vaccination, because the leading principle of his system is that all diseases arise from impurity of the blood, and therefore, as vaccination is a poisoner of the blood, he was quite against it ; and so it came to this, that if vaccination was right, his system must be wrong; but all experience goes to prove that his system is the only true one. Daughter : But, mother, why was Mr. Morison not made a doctor ? Mother : Well, my dear, that was impossible, because Mr. Morison would have had to subscribe to doctrines in medicine which he did not believe, and he was far too honourable to do that ; so he came before the public not as a doctor, but as a private gentleman. If he had pretended to be a doctor, that would have been fraud, and that's very wicked. The greatest discoveries have often been made by what are called outsiders — that is, people not regularly bred up to the particular calling, and Mr. Morison was one of them . Daughter : I have heard lately that there is a great deal of fever throughout the country. Then, mother, if vaccination is a poisoner of the blood, I should think it very likely that this fever is owing to vaccination. What do you think ? Mother : Nothing, my dear, is more likely ; because the blood is the suffering principle in every case of fever ; and since vaccination poisons the blood, fever would be the natural con sequence, and then consumption . Daughter : They said that at Terling, in Essex, fever was very prevalent, and the doctors ascribed it to bad sewers and the want of drainage. Was it so, mother, do you think ? Mother : I do not, my dear; because the fever has been just as prevalent in other parts of the country as it was at Terling. I think that all this fever proceeds from vaccination, and I am the more of this opinion because we find that in that once beautiful and healthy island of the Mauritius they have also had the fever so bad that the people are quite afraid ; so that it is all alike, and in my opinion quite condemns  vaccination . Daughter : Is that where Paul and Virginia lived, mother ? Mother . Yes, my dear. That island is now a hotbed of dis ease and fever, and the inhabitants blame vaccination for it. The Government has sent out a commission to inquire into the cause, and the doctors, as usual, find a loophole by telling the people that the fever is all owing to bad sewers, &c.; but they are not believed , and a strict inquiry is to be made. Daughter : But, mother, do not other countries rise against this dreadful vaccination ? Mother : Yes, my dear, many countries are beginning to B 2 6 inquire into the matter — such as Germany and France; and, in short, all of them begin to suspect something wrong . Daughter : But, mother, how is it that vaccination has been allowed to go on so long ? Mother : Well, as to that, I think it proceeds from the fact that vaccination does not produce death immediately, but it insidiously # and assiduously works its deadly effects on the blood . If it had been fatal at once, of course it never could have been intro duced, and that is the reason parents have not suspected it of producing fever and consumption. Vaccination should be looked upon as the bite of a snake or a mad dog — which, you know , by their effect on the blood, very often produce death . Sometimes, too, children die from vaccination in a few days; in others, it takes longer time, but still, being a poisoner of the blood , it must always tend to disease and death . Daughter : Then , mother, it is not only the poor children yet unborn that will suffer from vaccination, but other people will catch the fevers which it produces, as they have done in the island of Mauritius. Mother : Of course, my dear ; thousands of people will take the fever from others which has been produced by vaccination , : and that is one of the reasons why vaccination should be stopped. Daughter : Well then, mother, why doesn't the Government stop vaccination ? Mother : Well, my dear, that is a very natural question why don't they, indeed ! — but the Government is in the hands of the medical faculty, which is like a priestcraft, and it is therefore powerless. Mr. Morison, in the year 1867, went with a deputation before the Duke of Buckingham, who was what they call Lord President of the Council, and there were also many members of Parliament, and also doctors : and the Duke, when he heard what the deputation had to say against vaccination, told them that he was for an inquiry into such an important subject ; but I suppose afterwards the doctors got hold of him and persuaded the Government not to interfere, as the doctors are afraid of the real truth coming out, of their having poisoned the people with vaccination for the last seventy years. That, you see, my dear, would be a terrible blow to doctors, and therefore they will try all they can to prop up vaccination. Daughter : What & horrible state of things, mother, to think that, in order to please the doctors, you and I should be poisoned by vaccination, and then that we are all liable to take fevers produced by vaccination, as is the case in the island of Mauritius ! Mother : Well, my dear, the cheat of vaccination will go on until the people think for themselves. Hitherto, they have be lieved all that the interested doctors have told them , and have surrendered themselves and their consciences up to them, so that you cannot be surprised at the present lamentable state of things ; but in Sheffield the doctors are opposed by high minded men, who are determined to know the truth, and there fore I believe that great good will come out from that quarter. They begin to see that doctors, as a profession, live by disease, and not by health, and that this vaccination is their best stock in trade, for ever producing all kinds of fever ; which is not sus pected by the public ; but it is the truth for all that. Daughter : Well, mother, what do they say about it at the Smallpox Hospital ? Mother : Well, my dear, there it appears that 81 per cent. of the patients admitted into that hospital have been vaccinated . So that does not say much for vaccination. In some of the towns of Scotland the mortality of children under five years of age, they say, is 96 per cent. So that you see, my dear, the poor children have not even the chance of taking the smallpox, for they die of FEVER and CONSUMPTION !!! Daughter : Well, but, mother, what did they do for the smallpox before they had inoculation or vaccination ? Mother : Well, my dear, we did far better ; for then we avoided fever and consumption to a vast extent. Now we have smallpox as bad and worse than ever, notwithstanding all our sanitary measures, and the pock-marked people whom you hear so much about were the fruits of " inoculation ,” by giving the smallpox to healthy, helpless children . I now see many pock marked people, but the vaccinators do not see them , I suppose. They tell you when a party is marked , that he has not been properly vaccinated . It was, therefore, no wonder that owing to inoculation the smallpox should have been so prevalent during the last century. The doctors did all this, my child, until the country put a stop to them, as it will be obliged to do with  vaccination  , and as it has already done with BLEEDING !!! Daughter : Mother, it strikes me that if doctors were right in Vaccinating for smallpox, they ought also to vaccinate for scarlet-fever, or any other fever. Mother : If they were consistent they ought, my child ; but : it is all a gross delusion, from which they make a vast deal of money. They are first called in through the stupid ignorance of people in medical matters to vaccinate healthy and helpless infants, from which they derive great fees from the rich ; and then they are again called in to cure diseases produced by their vaccination ; so that you see what great interest doctors have in keeping up this delusion as regards vaccination. The cost to the country is every year becoming more enormous ; for it now pays for the vaccination of the poor alone £ 250,000 yearly ; and if I am right in what I have been telling you about its producing fever and consumption , it must end in making paupers of the country; for you ought to know, my child, that the poor and working-class cannot afford to have continually sick children and to pay doctors’ bills. The father of a boy told me the other day that he had paid the doctor £40 for attending him for a disease produced by vaccination Daughter : It is indeed a most serious question, and I wonder a that the grea good, and clever people of the country don't set their faces against vaccination. Mother : As to that, my dear, the high people know less than : the low ones, for they allow themselves, more than others, to be led by the nose by doctors. They fancy that because they have been to College, and are generally men of education, therefore they must know best, forgetting all the while that if doctors treated diseases in a simple and naturalway they could not make the fees they now do. Doctors, my dear, I am sorry to say, have reduced the noble art of healing to a trade, and that of the most despicable kind, for it is a trade in disease. With few exceptions, doctors will never support anything that does away with disease-they live by it — and all our sanitary movements have proceeded from non- medical parties. It is a hard thing to say, but it is the truth . Daughter : By-the-bye, mother, you just now said something about sanitary movements. I think some ladies offered a prize for the best essay on “ Vaccination ? ” Mother : Yes ; a good lady offered a prize of £ 100 for the best essay, and there were fifty-three essays sent in ; and three doctors (all in favour of vaccination) were appointed judges, and they awarded the prize to a doctor. But, for all that, the public do not think that justice was done, and the truth will still come out in spite of all they can do to prevent it. These essays will cause inquiry, and that is all that can be necessary to expose such a fallacy as vaccination . Mr. Morison , although he did not send an essay, published what is far more important, viz. , the proceedings before the Duke of Buckingham, in 1867, wherein the bad faith of the doctors is fully exposed on this question, and he called his pam phlet “ The End of Vaccination , the Blood Poisoner, ” which is, in one word, telling the world the truth, viz. , that vaccination is “ a poisoner," and therefore ought not to be used. Daughter : Never mind, mother ; all these essays must create inquiry, which will bring out the truth . But can you tell me how such an unnatural and disgusting thing as vaccination came to be adopted ? It is not only unnatural, but I should think contrary to true religion. That it poisons the blood I think there can be no doubt. Mother : Well, my dear, the women were the principal cause, because they were so frightened about their looks, that rather than be marked with the smallpox , they would have under gone anything, however beastly . They, however, did not reflect that by this vaccination they were spoiling their beauty ten thousand times more than if even they had been marked with the smallpox, for, as I have told you before, vaccination has been the cause of creating fever and consumption, and the consequence now is that women, instead of being strong and healthy, are poor, miserable, half-grown, consumptive creatures, losing their teeth before they are twenty years of age, and having that dark muddy complexion, with pimples or blotches - no strength or energy, and certainly quite unfit to be wives or mothers. This is what our scientific doctors have reduced our women to. Oh, if the women only knew the truth, how different might have been the state of things as regards not only our women, but our young men ! Just look at them : without strength to endure fatigue of any kind, and having the same consumptive appearance as the women. Tired of life before they are any age ! -our mad-houses filled to overflow! suicides all over the country ! Such are the characteristics of the age. Another reason why vaccination was imposed upon the public is that the Church ( without knowing what they 10 were about) supported the stupid doctors, and placarded their church doors with notices to get vaccinated , and the poor gratis.” This looks charitable, my dear, doesn't 66 it ? But the confiding people never thought that they were being cheated of their health and lives in order that the doctors might chuck in the FEES ! Oh ! when ' I think of the infamy, it makes my blood boil again ! Then a third way in which they have blinded the people is by what they call “ statistics,” which I suppose you " don't understand . It is very like the cooking of railway accounts, by the use of figures which can be made very true or very false according to the way they are dealt with. The deaths from consumption and fevers, which they put down to God or nature in their statistics, should be put down to VacCINATION, as the poisoner of the blood, which is quite suffi cient to account for such deaths ; but they are dealt with in a different way by the doctors of the Government, and thus the confiding people are cheated upon this most important point. Daughter : Well, mother, I now see through the whole nefa rious business, and can well understand why Mr. Morison so strongly opposes vaccination, in which he ought to be supported by the whole country ; which I am sure they would do if they understood the great points at stake as regards that most hor rible operation called vaccination, which we have most falsely been led to suppose was so innocent. I have, unfortunately, been vaccinated , but I'll take care that no one shall re-vacci nate me. But does Mr. Morison in his book say anything about bleeding ? Mother : Yes, he not only objected to vaccination, but also to bleeding and the pharmaceutical poisons, such as Strychnine, Prussic Acid, and the like, by which so many have been killed, and terrible crimes committed. He showed, my dear, that all these poisons were not required for the cure of diseases, which all proceed from one grand cause, viz . :-Impurity of the blood. Yet for all this he did not get the thanks of his country, because the people allowed themselves to be led by the nose by doctors; but the time will come when the name of JAMES MORISON, the Hygeist, will stand high among his countrymen, for he has told them important truths. He warned the Government against these terrible poisons introduced by doctors, in order to create mystery and confusion in the healing art, and that the time would come when these poisons would be used for wicked purposes. Daughter : Well, mother, then the responsibility will be on the heads of the doctors, as it is now on the question of vaccination ; and I should think that the Government ought to watch such a profession as that of the doctors if they possess so much power over our lives. When I was vaccinated , mother, how much did you pay the doctor ? Mother : I paid him one guinea, but the rich pay a great deal more the £250,000 which is paid to the doctors by the country is for vaccinating the poor. Daughter : Then they must make a great deal of money out of this vaccination ? Mother : They do, indeed , when you come to think of the number of children which are born every day ; but that would be all fair and just if vaccination were right_but it is, on the contrary, all wrong ; for, go where you like, you always hear mothers say—“ Yes, my dear child was well till it was vaccinated ." Daughter : And no wonder, mother, if this vaccination poisons W the blood. Mother : It does indeed, my dear ; and remember you bear in mind throughout your life -that the blood is the all in all — the in dividualhimself in short, the very life ;* and if you only remember this you will always be right. If doctors had known this, they never could have fallen into the error of vaccination. Daughter : Have doctors given up bleeding since Mr. Morison exposed the practice in his book ? Mother : They have, my dear, but they don't give Mr. Morison credit for it. As with vaccination, they find a loophole, and tell us they have given it up because our bodies ALTER ! Can you imagine such contemptible quackery, and from men who style themselves scientific ! They blame the sewers and drains for the deaths produced by their vacci nation, but they will be obliged to give it up by force of public opinion, as they were forced to give up bleeding. Daughter : And how about their deadly poisons, mother ? Mother : Well, my dear, like Frankenstein they are now all frightened at the monster they have created . The lives of people are in the greatest jeopardy by their poisons. How any honest Government, in the face of these facts, can support the doctors, I cannot understand. Daughter : Who is Mr. R. B. Gibbs, mother ? Mother : Why, he is a most philanthropic gentleman whohas devoted his time to this question, without fee or reward . He has lectured through the country against vaccination , and was the founder of the Anti-Vaccination League, which has doneso much to inform the public, and to which all who wish for the truth should subscribe. Daughter : Were the doctors paid who inoculated people from the year 1720 to 1800 ? Mother : They were, my dear; just as they are now paid for vaccination . Daughter : Then, mother, I can understand why the delusion of inoculation lasted so long. What a pity that the public did not before look into this question ! What an amount of disease and death might have been saved if Mr. Morison's advice, in 1825, had been followed ! Mother : Many people ask , “ What would you substitute for vaccination ? ” Why, nothing at all. With Mr. Morison's Medicines you may treat the smallpox, when it does come, as you would any other fever. This has been proved by hosts of cases . If people kept their bodies in proper order by the occasional use of Mr. Morison's Medicines, there would be very few cases of smallpox, or any other fever. A doctor in Scot land , Sir J. Y. Simpson, now talks of “ Isolation ” in order to stamp out smallpox. By this, my dear, they would make prisoners of all persons attacked by smallpox ; so that you see it is just like all their other guess-work, a perfect “ blind-man’s buff," " in a disease which is a mere effort of nature, and which, if pro perly treated, should inspire no more fear than any other fever. So that you see the great good Mr. Morison will have done the world if he has disarmed smallpox of all its terrors, which I am sure he has done. Daughter : Mother, I have lately read that the army of the United States suffered dreadfully from vaccination. Was it so ? Mother : It did, my dear ; hundreds of men had their limbs amputated in consequence of spurious vaccination, and the party who caused the vaccination to be performed was put on his trial for poisoning the people, convicted , and executed . Daughter: Then why don't they do the same thing here,mother ? Mother: That day may come, dear 