70 VACCINATION, ITS SOURCE, NATURE AND EFFECTS. AN ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE ST. MARYLEBONE VESTRY HALL, LONDON; BY K CHARLES T. PEARCE, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Surgeons, England. " Loud and bitter complaints are made of the state of the lymph used, and of the danger ofhorrible diseases being communicated by vaccination. Are these things so ? " LONDON: H. BAILLIERE, 219, REGENT STREET, W. PRICE SIX PENCE.    By the same Author. VACCINATION ; ITS TESTED EFFECTS ON HEALTH, MORTALITY AND POPULATION. LIBRARY EDITION, PRICE FIVE SHILLINGS. ALSO A NEW METHOD OF CHECKING THE SPREAD OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES, BY DISINFECTING & PURIFYING THE AIR. PRICE SIXPENCE . Mr ITISA 17 FE 70 H. BAILLIERE, LONDON, PARIS, NEW YORK, AND MELBOURNE    The following Address was delivered on the occasion of a large Meeting in St. Marylebone Vestry Hall,> on October 19th , 1869, convened to consider the Vaccination Laws. Thomas CHAMBERS, Esq. , M.P. for the Borough of Marylebone, occupied the Chair. It is printed by request of several friends, in the hope that its perusal will awaken many to a sense of the national and social importance of the subject    ADDRESS MR. CHAIRMAN, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, I am here this evening by an invitation from your parishioners, to speak on the subject of vaccination, to justify the opposition which I have offered to its practice and the advice I have given to my fellow countrymen and countrywomen , to resist the law which makes the not doing of an act a felony on the one hand, and the doing of a similar act a felony on the other. You are fined with the alternative of imprisonment if you refuse to inoculate your offspring with the virus taken from a diseased brute, which is unnatural to man ; and you commit a felony if you inoculate with small -pox, a disease natural to man. The object and purpose of this legislation is stated to be the prevention of the disease smallpox. You are forbidden to prevent the recurrence of the disease, by artificially producing it by inoculation, which is a reality, and affords some protection. You are enjoined , yea, forced by legislation to vaccinate, which is a sham, and affords no protection .    5 It is a rule, though there are occasional exceptions, that a person having had smallpox or scarlatina, measles or whooping- cough, is not so likely to be similarly attacked a second time. The observation of this rule led Lady Mary Wortley Montague, in the year 1722, to introduce into England the practice of inoculation, that is , introducing  smallpox  into the system through a puncture in the skin , the object being, to prevent the liability to the disease in later life . That practice was recommended and strongly urged by the medical profession of that day, and was so extensively carried out for many years, that the disease which it was intended to check was thereby spread, and the mortality greatly increased . Every inoculated person became a certre of infection to others, until at length matters became so serious, that parliamentary aid was sought to put a stop to the practice of inoculation, and it is now a penal offence to do that which a century ago was recommended and practised by the profession ; the time will come, and the sooner the better, when vaccination will be made a penal offence, though now the doctors almost universally hug the unclean thing with its emoluments to their bosoms. Prior to the adoption of the Arabian practice introduced by Lady Montague,  smallpox  had greatly declined in prevalence and in severity in this country ; in 1801 also, Dr. Jenner spoke of the prevalence of smallpox in his native county (Gloucestershire) being of so mild a form , that people took no more notice of it than of any ordinary fever ; it was seldom that any one died of the disease, even when great numbers were attacked ; these, be it observed, were > not vaccinated.     6 This brings me to the so- called, discovery of Dr. Jenner, that village apothecary, who laid claim to the discovery , although for many years, people had done that for which Jenner, on his own petition , obtained thirty thcusand pounds of the public money, voted by parliament.Like men in these days, who often pick up information second- hand, and obtain a patent for the exclusive use and profits of a discovery. Jenner could not see his way clear to getting a patent for his process, for diseasing the popula tion, so he petitioned parliament for a money reward, and he succeeded. Now, let us see what Jenner sold for thirty thousand pounds ; what was this vaccination as propounded by Jenner ? I will read you his own description, as given in his own work, published in 1798, a second edition being published in 1801 . These are his words : “ There is a disease to which the horse is frequently subject, the farriers have termed it the grease. It is an inflammation and swelling of the heel, from which issues matter, possessing properties of a very peculiar kind , which seems capable of generating a disease in the human body, which bears so strong a resemblance to small -pox that I think it highly probable it may be the source of that disease.” “ In this dairy county (Gloucestershire) a great number of cows are kept ; the office of milking is performed indis criminately by men and maid- servants . One of the former having applied dressings to the heels of a horse * During the debate in the House of Common in 1807, Mr Shaw Lefevre stated that 20 years before Jenner, a Mr. Jesty practised vaccination from the cow, in the year 1774, and claimed for Mr. Jesty a share of the yote. Ages ago vaccination was practised in India, and abandoned ,    7 affected with the grease, incautiously milked the cows with some particles of the infectious matter adhering to his fingers. The disease thus communicated to the cows, and from the cows to the dairy- maids, spreads through the farm , until most of the domestics and the cattle feel its unpleasant consequences. This disease has obtained the name of cow -pox." Dr. Jenner then proceeds to give a description of the nature of the cow- pox. I ask your attention to this par ticularly, as you will see at once that the vaccination of the present day, bears no resemblance to that described by Jenner. He says, “ Inflamed spots begin to appear on the hands, sometimes on the wrists, which quickly run on to suppu ration . Absorption takes place, and tumours appear in each arm -pit. The system becomes affected , the pulse is quick ened, and shiverings, with general lassitude and pains about the loins and limbs, with vomiting, come on. The head is painful and the patient is , every now and then, affected with delirium . These symptons generally con tinue from one day to three or four, leaving ulcerated sores about the hands, which commonly heal slowly, frequently becoming phagedenic, like those from whence they sprung ; the lips, eyelids, nostrils, and other parts of the body are sometimes affected with sores . Thus the disease makes its progress, from the horse to the nipple of the cow , and from the cow to the human subject. What renders . the cow- pox virus, so extremely singular is , THAT THE PERSON WHO HAS BEEN THUS AFFECTED, IS FOR EVER AFTER SECURE FROM THE INFECTION OF THE smallPOX . " To be thus affected was a serious matter, and yet to be   8 “ thus affected ” was necessary to ensure protection . Are you, my friends, prepared to be “ thus affected ? ” I apprehend not . But you doctors and public vaccinators will say, we don't vaccinate thus ; we get the lymph from a “ purer source. “ We get it from the cow, without going to the horse . It is not grease , but pure lymph from cowpox which we now employ." Then you do not do justice to Jenner ; your lymph is not a preventative , and you know it is not ; you say it modifies an attack of  smallpox , though it does not prevent it , but Jenner asserted that his process would protect for ever ; that is , for life. Let us listen to Jenner on this matter, do not take my authority only, but take his . Now what does he say of spontaneous cowpox ? I will read the following “ It is necessary to observe that pustulous sores frequently appear spontaneously on the nipples of cows, and instances have occurred of the hands of servants employed in milking, being affected with soresin consequence, and even of their feeling an indisposition from absorption. These pustules are of a much milder nature than those which arise from that contagion which constitutes the true cow - pox . They are alwaye free from the bluish or livid tint so conspicuous in the pustules of that disease ; no erysipelas attends them , * nor do they shew any phagedenic disposition as in the other case, but terminate in a scab. This complaint ( spontaneous cow - pox ) appears at various seasons of the year, but most commonly in the spring, when the cows are first taken from their winter food , and * Erysipelas appears to be a necessary or at least a usual accompaniment of true cɔw-pox, yet when a child dies of vaccination it is returned to the RegistrarofDeaths, " Died of Erysipelas .” 9 fed with grass. BUT THIS DISEASE IS NOT TO BE CONSIDERED AS SIMILAR IN ANY RESPECT TO THAT OF WHICH I AM TREATING , as it is INCAPABLE OF PRODUCING ANY SPECIFIC EFFECT ON THE HUMAN CONSTITUTION. HOWEVER, IT IS OF THE GREATEST CONSEQUENCE TO POINT IT OUT HERE, LEST THE WANT OF DISCRIMINATION SHOULD OCCASION AN IDEA OF SECURITY FROM THE INFECTION OF THE  smallpox , WHICH MIGHT PROVE DELUSIVE .” > Yet in defiance of all this, a gentleman lately arrived from Abyssinnia , Dr. Blanc, has advocated this spurious vaccination, against which Dr. Jenner so strongly cautions the faculty. Indeed, the inconsistency of Dr. Blanc is so apparent, that I cannot refrain from calling your attention to it here. In a letter to the Daily Telegraph, Dr. Blanc, in order to guard against the danger of transferring other diseases, advises vaccination direct from the heifer. In that letter Dr. Blanc speaks of cowpox being a disease foreign to man, and concludes his letter by advising  vaccination  from a healthy heifer. How an animal suffering from cowpox can be healthy, ΙI cannot understand. Now I maintain that such vaccination is a sham , it is not protective . Do you ask proof ? Look at the last Report of the  smallpox  Hospital ; 84 per cent of those having  smallpox  are found to have been vaccinated. All have the mark from the beast on the arm. How comes this ? Where isyour protection ? Now, let me place before you in connexion with this fact, another fact. It has been stated on authority, that only half the people of this country have been vaccinated, Lord Robert Montague stated this in the House of Commons in 1867, when the last Vaccination Act was under discussion. Inmany districts of England, indeed a very small proportion of the people are vaccinated. Let us admit, however, that 10 50 per cent of the people are vaccinated. Surely then it is natural to expect that even if the chances were equal as regards the vaccinated and unvaccinated, half the patients in the  smallpox  Hospital should be in an “ unprotected”" condition. If indeed vaccination is protectire, then a smaller number a of vaccinated should be found having  smallpox  ; but the contrary is the case. Only sixteen in every hundred cases are unvaccinated. Surely if the liability to  smallpox  were greater in the unvaccinated, the numbers ought to have been reversed. Here let me advert to a remark from my friends in the profession who believe in vaccination. They say, “ those who have been vaccinated, have  smallpox  mildly on that account ; at least, it is modified if not prevented .” But Jenner has told you to night, through his book, that the vaccinated were for EVER after secure from an attack of  smallpox . For ever — for life — he meant ( I hope he confined  vaccination  to this life ). It is mere assumption, that smallpox is modified by vaccination. Frequently have I seen , and my experience has been pretty extensive, the unvaccinated in a house pass lightly through smallpox, while the  vaccinated  have had it severely. Indeed, Dr. Corner, Medical Officer of Health in the east end of London, a few weeks since, reported four cases of  smallpox , in one house in his district ; two of them had been vaccinated ,two had not ; two of them died ; and which twothink you died ? the two who ought to have died did not die ; they had not been vaccinated. It was very naughty of them not to die . Still naughtier in the two vaccinated to die in spite of vaccination ! In spite of the doctors ! In spite of the Privy Council and of Parlia 11 ment ! Why, sir, they ought to be apprehended by the sergeant at arms of the House of Commons for contempt of court ! but they are dead . Why did not the two un vaccinated  die ? Why did the vaccinated die ? Take another instance . A fortnight ago, the Medical Officer of Mile End reported to the Board of Guardians, two deaths from smallpox . The chairman , an intelligent gentleman, untainted by medical bigotry , asked this question : “ Pray, were these two persons vaccinated ?" “ Yes," said the clerk, “ I have taken particular care to ascertain that they were both vaccinated .” So much for protection . “ But allow me," said a medical friend to me the other day, “ they had not been properly done ;; their vaccination was not properly performed ; perhaps done by an unqualified assistant " -without a diploma !! Before a man can be qualified to vaccinate, he must study four years at a Medical School; he must pay heavy fees for lectures on anatomy, physiology, chemistry, botany, surgery, pathology, prin ciples and practice of medicine ; he must have dissected for three winter sessions ; he must have attended hospital practice for three or four years. Indeed, he must know Greek and Latin. All this before he is qualified to vaccinate . He must have a diploma to protect him ; in a word, a license to kill; which if he possesses not, however well qualified he may be, he is liable to be fined before Her Majesty's Justices of the Peace, like a sportsman who shoots game without a license . Now, I say, and it is positively known, that he may have attended lectures and hospital practice for seven years, and at the end, know nothing about vaccination ; indeed, 12 he may be utterly ignorant when he gets to the bedside of a child, as to whether that child is suffering from scarlatina , measles or small -pox. You say, that the vaccinated who get smallpox have not been properly done. Is not this a serious charge against the medical profession ? I place such objectors in a dilemma thus ; either vaccination is not properly performed, or it is a sham . If not properly performed, let the vaccinators be responsible. If, being properly performed, it fails , then it is a sham. Was Prince Arthur's vaccination properly performed ? if so, why did he get small - pox ? I now proceed to consider briefly what are the real effects of vaccination ? We have seen what are its pretended virtues . The real effects of vaccination are 1st . To multiply by transfer, serious and filthy diseases . 2nd. To deteriorate the constitution by placing it in an abnormal and unnatural state. 3rd . To shorten life immediately and remotely, and thus increase the death rate . Your notice calling the meeting states, that " loud and bitter complaints are made, of the state of the lymph used, and of the danger of horrible diseases being communicated by vaccination ! Are these things so ? ” I am asked this question ; my answer is , yes ; alas, too true ! For many years I have held this belief; a very large proportion of the people have a conviction that it is true, but proof is sought : well, we have it ? and I cannot do > better I think, than adduce evidence which will not be dis puted . I believe if I were to assemble a meeting of 500 people, anywhere in England, where vaccination has been extensively carried out, and were to ask for a show of hands  19 by those who had witnessedthe ill effects of vaccination, there would be no lack of voters in the affirmative. At the first public meeting of any importance in this country where this subject was discussed, in 1860, in which meeting I took a prominent part, there was no lack of women or of men, who lifted up their hands and their voices against vaccination ; and after that great meeting in 1860, an open air meeting of the people was held in the market square of the town of Northampton, by moonlight, and there publicly for the first time, mothers declared they would go to prison rather than submit to the vaccination of their babes. But the faculty will not accept such expression ; they say this is not evidence . The privy council state, that the great majority of evidence in the medical profession, is in favour of vaccination. Sir Benjamin this, and Sir James that, say, we never saw any ill effects of vaccination. Hospital surgeons of great eminence have said no to the question “ Did you ever see any other disease produced by vaccina tion ? ” With all due deference to their ability, their learning and their skill, I say, they were not the persons to consult . Ask the mothers of England, who are not prejudiced by diplomas and fees ; these see with their eyes ; the vaccina tors see through their pockets. [Here some expressions of disapprobation came from a corner of the hall. ] Mr. Chairman, exception is taken to my last utterance ; do you require proof ? I will give it you. A few days since a poor woman came to me, with three summonses to Clerkenwell Police Court, for having neglected the vaccina tion of her children . I read those summonses, and I was shocked to find, that they were issued on the application of of a parish medical officer ; and each summons informed 14 the reader, that the sum of two shillings was to be paid to the medical officer, who had descended to become a common informer ; and I say here emphatically, that if that doctor put those six shillings into his pocket, he disgraced the profession to which he belongs . ( Immense applause . ] Sir, that medical man who turned informer, has a vested interest in advocating vaccination , and I say his advocacy looks suspicious. The position of the public vaccinator reminds me forcibly of an anecdote which was told of a layman and a clergyman of the established church . The layman , a member of the Anti- state Church Associa tion, forcibly argued against the principal of state churchism. The clergyman's reply to each argument was invariably, " I don't see it ;" whereupon the layman, taking out his pencil, wrote in small letters on a piece of paper, the word " truth ;" then covering what he had written with a sovereign , asked the clergyman if he could read that which was written ? “ No, how can I ? you have covered it . " The gold coin was then removed ; “ do you see it now ? " asked the layman . The clergyman blushed : he saw the truth when the golden veil was removed. [Applause. ] So it is with the faculty in regard to vaccination ; they see it is “ covered with gold .” How can you expect men who have an interest in idol worship to melt down their images! " Great is Diana of the Ephesians," said those who lived by making shrines . The public vaccinators alone, the medical men who are appointed by the poor law guardians,, have already had more than a million sterling out of your parochial rates. Is it no a thing to ask those men to vote for the abandonment of the golden cow which gives them so much good milk ? It  15 is a serious matter, sir, the creation of these state appointed officers. Were the privy council to suspend the law, and > thus deprive these men of their emoluments, an instant cry would be made for compensation, for loss of income. They have their hands in your pockets . Marylebone paid last year £269 15s . for vaccination fees out of its rates : the total for all the parishes in London amounted to £5,466 13s. for the year . How many thousand children had their blood poisoned for that sum ? Doctors are only human ; they are no better than lawyers. A friend of mine, a Doctors' Common's lawyer, told me, that he was a very religious man, for he believed in the law and the profits. I remem ber hearing of the portrait of a lawyer which was suspended in the market room of an inn, where the farmers of the county usually dined . The portrait was admirably painted, and it was greatly approved. All the company assem bled expressed their admiration of the likeness, excepting one farmer,who rivetted his attention on the portrait ; his silence however, was broken by a question put to him, thus : “ what do you think of it ? " " It wont do, said he ; it isn't like him .” “ Why not ? We think it splendid. ” “ No it isn't . Why, look ! he's got his hand in his own pocket ; if he had got his hand in somebody else's pocket it would be like him ." Now, parliament and the parish vaccinators have their hands in your pockets ; and it is for you to say, how long they shall remain there . Now for the evidence, as to the infliction of other diseases by vaccination. Dr. Ballard, a metropolitan medical officer of health, has written an essay in favour of vaccination , in which he has given abundant evidence of its evils. 16 Dr. Ballard reminds me of certain members of the legislature, whom I need not indicate by name to you Mr. Chairman . Noblemen, during the discussion on the Irish Church Disestablishment Bill, made magniloquent speeches in favour of the bill, argued never so wisely against the Irish Church establishment, but when it came to the division , they voted against the measure. Now , Dr. Ballard, though well informed as to the evils of vaccination , votes for its continuance . Well, what does Dr. Ballard say ? At page 344–5 of his essay, he says,, speaking of syphilitic contamination by the vaccination puncture— “ Does it never happen that the vaccine virus and the syphilitic virus are each drawn at the same moment from the same vesicle, and that, too, a fine, perfect complete, and unmistakeable Jennerian vesicle ? I believe that it does happen. I believe that it happened in the Revalta and in the Lupara series : and this disposes of the theoretical objection, that the same vesicle cannot furnish both viruses, unless it be modified somehow in its characters. The perfect character of the vesicle is no guarantee that . it will not furnish both vaccine and syphilitic virus." Dr. Ballard relates instances in which syphilitic vaccination has happened. In one series of " disasters," a child eleven months old was vaccinated by a surgeon, May 24th, 1861. This child drew the breast of a woman undoubtedly affected with syphilis. On the tenth day, forty - six children were vaccinated from this child ; of these thirty -nine became affected with syphilis, evidenced by glandular enlargements, mucous tubercles, ulceration of the mouth and throat, cutaneous eruptions, &c . Several of these children died. From one of the thirty -nine, a child six months' old, being vaccinated, lymph was taken and  17 used for seventeen other children, seven of these became affected in the same manner as the thirty -nine : this child also died three months afterwards. The nurse who suckled her got ulcers on the breast, and from various other children who were syphilised, the disease spread by contagion to eighteen mothers and nurses, and to three other children ." In another well authenticated series, published in 1862, by Dr. Marone, in whose practice it occurred , twenty- three infants were affected with syphilis . All those children, as well as their parents, were healthy at the time of the vaccination . From these infants the mothers were affected . In their turns also the mothers imparted the disease to the fathers. One of those twenty -three infants served for new vaccinations ; eleven infants were contaminated ; mothers were again contaminated , and they infected others. A specific treatment was adopted, but nevertheless several of the children died . Dr. Marone, who published these cases in 1862, states that he would have published them earlier, but he had not dared to make it known before, partly because of his own reputation, and partly because he should injure that of vaccination in general . In another instance, forty-two children were diseased, who were vaccinated from a child whose parents were perfectly healthy, but were unfortunately vaccinated with syphilitic lymph . " Dr. Ballard, writing in advocacy of Vaccination, from whose volume the foregoing extracts of "' disasters ," as he terms them, are taken, significantly observes, “ such cases do not all come to light.” Is this evidence ? Now, let us come nearer home ; in your own parish , not long since, a child of Mr. Emery, of Great Portland B ! 18 Street, died a painful death, directly in consequence of vaccination . Dr. Lankester, your coroner, held an inquest on that death ; the jury had the evidence before them, and they returned the verdict, “ DIED OF ERYSIPELAS, CAUSED BY VACCINATION .” The coroner is unfortu nately, a member of the same profession as myself, and it was not surprising, that as a medical man he should exhibit his bias in favor of the hand that vaccinated that child , and through which, it lost its life . The proper duty of a coroner is to sit in court, and as a judge, weigh the evidence brought before the jury, and when a medical coroner expresses “ opinions ” and “ beliefs ” apart from the evidence before him, he exceeds his duty. I mention this here thus publicly, because Dr. Lankester has stated , that in his “ opinion ” the “ parent who loses a child by  smallpox  not having been vaccinated, is guilty of manslaughter ." I say it is a danger to the community, when a coroner departs from his proper function , and expresses opinions with the object of prejudicing a jury. The medical man who vaccinated that child, also  vaccinated another, probably with the same lancet ; that child died also. Mr. Bedford , the coroner for Westminster, held an inquest; when a similar verdict was returned. At whose door did the guilt of manslaughter lie ? Vaccination ? Or the operator ? Or “ Providence ? " These advocates of vaccination, medical coroners and vaccinators, screen the foul deed of child- murder behind the law ; they insult the bereaved parent by assuring him that not vaccination, but erysipelas has caused the death of his child . That child of Emery's died with all the symptoms of a dissection wound ; dead, decomposed, animal matter, was by puncture of the lancet, placed in that child, and the natural consequence followed. 19 “ Died of erysipelas, after vaccination ." There is more > in that verdict than is dreamt of in the philosophy of coroners. I have here the thirtieth report of the Registrar General. I find that in the six years 1862–1867, there died of erysipelas of all ages 10,635 ; of this number, no less than 7,165 were infants under five years of age . * Here we have the direct result of vaccination . Erysipelas was formerly a disease of adult life ; now, more than two-thirds are children under five years of age , and one-third under twelve months old—the year of vaccination ; all these die of erysipelas; the proper return to the Registrar General would be " killed by vaccination .” The Medical Times and Gazette of the 25th of September last, contained a letter from Dr. Bakewell, Medical Officer of Health and Vaccinator General of the Colony of Trinidad ; that gentleman writes thus :-- Since I have been in Trinidad, and particularly since I have been Vaccinator General, my attention has been much directed to the subject of leprosy, and its possible propa gation by vaccination. It is a strange but undoubted fact, that leprosy is greatly increasing in this island ; that it is attacking the children of most respectable parents, who want nothing in the way of diet, etc. And moreover, it is attacking the children of Europeans, where there can be no possibility of hereditary taint . Now, it is worthy of remark, that in this island, vaccination has of late years been compulsory, and that a large proportion of the young people were actually vaccinated during an epidemic of  smallpox  a few years ago. The general opinion among medical men is, that it is quite possible that leprosy may be * See Table 1 in Appendix, 20 propagated in this manner. It is curious, too, that in those islands where vaccination is not much used there is very much less leprosy in proportion than here . The prejudice against vaccination here is very strong, and solely I believe on this account. " In an experience of twenty years, I have been witness to very many instances in which this destructive art, vaccination, has ruined the health of whole families. Now, Sir, I think I have disposed of my first proposition, viz . : That filthy diseases are communicated by vaccination . I now come to the second charge which I make against vaccination, and I will not detain you long on this : I mean the deterioration of our race by vaccination. The intro duction of a disease foreign to man, is a direct violation of Divine laws. God has so arranged and disposed creation, such harmony exists naturally, that man is able to live among, and associate with lower animals without being infected by their diseases . Diseases of the lower animals are not infectious to man. Vaccination steps in and supersedes this immunity by introducing a disease by inocula tion ; this I maintain is a defilement of the body, and if there > is here to -night an Israelite, manor woman, let them ponder on the sin of defiling the body, by touching an unclean beast, a pollution, a positive deterioration ; you are, so to speak, budding a human body with a portion of an inferior nature . You disease the lymphatics, and through these the whole glandular system ; you disturb the natural har mony, and you render the recipient less able to ward off or to bear other diseases which may overtake him. In this way, yoų increase the mortality directly, by its conse quences in infant life . You profess to prevent smallpox, supposing that Jennerism is practised, and substitute the  21 disease of a brute, for a human disease. Jennerism is death . Jenner vaccinated his son ; that boy died of consumption ; the remaining children of his own body, he inoculated with smallpox. Before he died, he forsook his faith in his nostrum, and still annually re - vaccinated his patients. Jenner knew full well that the disease he implanted by vaccination was one which could be distinguished by phagædenic ulcers . Is not this then a contamination ? Then think of the serious consequences to your children as they grow up to puberty. Now more than half the daughters of England who die between 20 and 25 years old, die of con sumption. * Is this nothing ? How is it that bronchitis and phthisis have increased with the extension of vaccina tion. Look at that diagram . Note well the tale it tells ; look at that ascending black line, that onward and upward wave of death ! how much higher will you permit it to go ? Stay, then, the hand of the vaccinator. Put on your strength , join us in waging war against a practice fraught with such an amount of disease and death. Let no more infants be slain. Let Britannia put her foot on this iniquitous, destroying, death- producing interference with nature's laws, and crush it out . Look at the pale faces of your youth of both sexes ! look at your premature decay of teeth ! note the want of power of endurance which now is evident in your young men and women ; look at the ill condition of your army; note well the increase of consumption in your household troops . With all your sanitary legislation and your boasted improvements * In the year 1865 the deaths of young women 20 to 25 years of age were from all causes 8,477, and of these, 4,290 ( being more than onehalf) died of phthisis . + See Table 2, in Appendix. 22 the mortality still increases. Just in proportion as you extend this filthy thing, vaccination, by compulsory laws, the general mortality is increased ; and this brings me to the Third proposition That the effects of vaccination are to shorten life and thus increase the death - rate. To do justice to this branch of our subject would require a long evening ; I can only touch upon it now . * You will see there in that diagram , * the fluctuations and changes of type in diseases in successive years . You now have scarlatina as the prevailing epidemic; next year it may be measles, and the following year it may be whooping- cough ; these visitations follow a law of vicarious mortality, the cause of which is as yet unknown ; but these are the facts; you never have one form of zymotic disease in the ascendant, without the depression of others. You now have dying around you, 300 a week of scarlatina ; of a  smallpox , some half dozen only, in a population of more than three millions. Vaccinators tell you, that smallpox is a scourge. Look at that black line at the bottom of that diagram ; you see it is at the bottom . Why, sir, this scourge that they talk about is a trifle ; there were more died of burns and scalds in 1867 than of smallpox. + Take away, then, the causes of zymotic disease, instead of vaccinating ; cleanse your towns and villages ; give the people good water and plenty of it . Instead of wasting a million of money, as you have done on vaccinators, out of your parochial rates, let such sum be laid out for the employment of your people, and feed them better. I am ashamed, sir, that parliament busies itself about enactments for depriving Englishmen of their liberty, while it neglects the discussion of the state of the country, and the employ * Table 4, in Appendix. See Table 3, in Appendix. 2 . 23 ment of the people. Money- mongers, like Lord Overstone, get up in the house of Peers and tell that house, that the people are prosperous ; for 150 millions sterling are saved annually ! Yes, your rich merchants get richer by dealing while the home producer — the artisan - gets poorer for want of employment, expensive food and high rents ; while his children cry for bread, they are goaded to destruction, and death at the hands of state- made public vaccinators. Down with your rates ! protest against being taxed to poison your neighbours. Sir James Simpson told us not long since, that 80,000 lives were saved every year by vaccination . Where is his proof ? Magistrates and Coroners tell you that millions of lives have been saved by vaccination ? I deny it. It is not true ; and now for evidence . Look at that paper. * In 1838, the great epidemic year * of smallpox, the deaths were 16,268, scarlatina 5,802. Two years later  smallpox  fell from sixteen thousand to ten thousand ; scarlatina therewith rose from 5,800 to 19,800. Now let us look for lives saved in the latter year, in 1838, the year of epidemic  smallpox , the whole mortality from all causes was 342,529. In 1840, when  smallpox  fell, the whole mortality was 359,561, being an increase of nineteen thousand, when  smallpox  fell six thousand. When  smallpox  prevails, your mortality is low ; when it is absent, the mor tality is high, because other diseases take its place ; so long as you suffer the disease-generating causes to remain , this mortality will continue. Now, this law is exemplified in other countries. Take Sweden; in 1829 there died of  smallpox  53, of all causes 82,719 ; in 1833  smallpox  rose to 1,145, the mortality from all causes fell to 63,947. Again , in 1846, smallpox fell to * See Table 4, in Appendix. 24 two only ; and in that year, the whole mortality rose to 72,683 ; proving that when  smallpox  is absent the general mortality is heaviest. This law of vicarious mortality is exemplified in the fact that in that same country, Sweden , there died in the year 1825, 1,243 of  smallpox  ; and in the same year, 3,962 of typhus fever . In 1829, when  smallpox  killed only 53 persons, typhus then rose to 9,264 . The law of displace ment of one disease by another, is thus manifest, over which man has no control. The causes existing, one or other form of disease is prevalent according to the condi tion of the atmosphere, and other surroundings on which our lives depend. The substitution of typhus for  smallpox  increased the mortality 150 per cent . So much for  smallpox  and vaccination . If we take cholera, we shall find similar astounding facts, thus in the year 1849, in England. There died of cholera... .... 53,273 And of diarrhea 17,833 Making a total of........ .71,106 If we take the general mortality from all causes, In the two years 1847-48 we find it 819,510 In the two years 1849-50 it was only 809,441 being upwards of ten thousand less when cholera and diarrhoea killed 71,000 persons. If we look at the next heavy epidemic of cholera, viz : 1866-7 we find there died of cholera ......... 15,300 And of diarrhoea ...... 37,031 Making a total of...... 52,331 The general mortality from all causes in those two years was 971,762 while in the two preceding years, 1864-5, the deaths reached 986,440 ; shewing that in the epidemic 25 cholera years, there were nearly fifteen thousand fewer deaths, although the population had increased. The most marvellous illustration of this law of substitu tion, I discovered in my researches going back two centuries : in the seven years 1604 to 1611 there died of plague in London 14,752 persons . In the seven following years there died only 171 of plague ; yet when plague killed nearly 15,000 persons, the whole mortality was only increased by 477. Thus do we see how absurd is the interference of man, by vaccination against one disease, while he permits the existence of the disease- producing causes. Sir, I have done. I must not longer detain this attentive and patient audience. Before I sit down, however, let me add one word . I am not terrified by law. I ask you, sir, in the name of an offended and indignant people, to represent our christian and national cause in the House of Assembly, which your presence adorns. I ask, in the name, not of Marylebone only, but of this nation. A true statesman has his country's weal at heart. I ask you, sir, to lift up your voice in the House of Commons against medical legislation, and especially against this iniquitous, cruel, tyrannical, and despotic law of compulsory vaccination ; let it be ex punged from the Statute book, of liberty - loving and free England. And you, the people, let your voice be heard ; be firm in your demands, unmoved in your resistance to the law ; you parents, whose turn may come to appear at a magistrate's court, have courage ! and when there, like Ann Sipple, Fear not magistrates, accusers ; Fear not prison, scourge, or rod ; All the truth thou hast to utter, Speak, and leave the rest to God. 26 APPENDIX, TABLE I. DEATHS FROM ERYSIPELASIN ENGLAND. ( Extractedfrom the Thirtieth Report of the Registrar General.) Year.Total under Under One Year Five Years of of Age.Age.All Ages. 1862 1863 1864 1865 1866 1867 458 612 618 579 527 467 563 745 733 682 637 544 1523 1920 2104 1963 1675 1450 Total in Six } 3,261 3,904 Years 10,635 ... Nearly one- third of the whole number of deaths from erysipelas consist of infants under twelve months old—the year in which vaccination is performed. TABLE II. Here a diagram was exhibited, which shewed a gradual advance in the mortality , from phthisis and bronchitis, during the last thirty years, and the mortality respectively from smallpox, scarlatina, fever, pneumonia, whooping-cough, &c. , compiled from the author's work, entitled “ Vaccination : its tested effects on health, mortality and population .” The following extracts give a portion of those tables Deaths from Bronchitis in England. In the seven years. Deaths. 1847 to 1853 97,166 1854 1860 180,798 1861 1867 252,641 Deaths from Bronchitis and Phthisis. 1847 to 1853 463,735 1854 1860 536,043 1861 1867 624,142 In the ten years, 1857 to 1866 inclusive, there died of— Scarlatina 187,605 Measles 90,341 Whooping- Cough 108,154  smallpox  42,529 Small -pox has always presented the smallest mortality in the present century, excepting in the year 1838. 27 TABLE III. Causes of Death in England in 1867, in the order of mortality. ( Extracted from Thirtieth Report of the Registrar General) 1 PATHISIS ... 55,042 2 BRONCHITIS 40,373 3 Atrophy & Debility 32,317 4 Old Age ... 28,646 ... 5 Convulsions 26,258 6 Heart Disease ... 21,689 7 PNEUMONIA 21,118 8 Diarrhoea 19,851 9 Typhus 16,862 10 SCARLATINA 12,300 11 WHOOPING Cough 11,783 12 Paralysis... 10,810 13 Apoplexy 10,406 14 Premature Birth 8,990 15 Cancer 8,545 16 Dropsy 7,095 17 Hydrocephalus 7,041 18 Tabes Mosenterico 6,882 19 Accidents 6,596 20 MEASLES 6,588 21 Brain Disease 5,671 22 Liver Disease 5,532 23 LUNG DISEASE 4,793 .. 24 Croup 4,387 25 Teething 4,300 ... 26 Cephalitis ... 4,220 27 Asthma 3,748 28 Sudden Death 3,506 29 Stomach Disease 2,948 30 Scrofula 2,938 31 Kidney Disease ... 2,920 32 Enteritis 2,858 .. 33 Drowning ... 2,670 ... 34 Burns and Scalds 2,600 35 DIPTHERIA 2,600 36 SMALL - POX 2,513 37 Child-birth 2,346 38 Epilepsy 2,312 1 39 Rheumatism 2,256 40 Nephria 2,203 The above table shews the frightful mortality from chest diseases, phthisis, bronchitis, and pneumonia, together killed in one year 116,533 persons. The deaths from small -pox were insignificant. 28 TABLE IV. Table shewing that in 1838, the year in which small -pox was fatal in sixteen thousand cases, the general mortality was seventeen thousand less than in 1840, when scarlatina took the place of smallpox. Year. 1838 1839 1840 smallpox ......... Measles.......... Scarlatina ....... Whooping - Cough 16,268 6,514 5,802 9,107 9,131 10,937 10,325 8,165 10,434 9,326 19,816 6,132 Total 37,691 38,558 45,708 Mortality from all causes in 1838 342,529 1840 359,561 »... Showing that there is the smallest general mortality when smallpox mortality is high. Mr ITIS 17 FE 70 MUSEUM WATSON BROTHERS, MACHINE PRINTERS, 50, CHURCH ST. , MINORIES.