Vaccination Viewed Politically. BY Professor Newman . I regard the political side of the vaccination question as the primary. It does not rest with Parliament to enforce how a disease shall be treated . If a Bill were proposed to enact that everyone who is seized with apoplexy shall be bled, the Lancet would probably be foremost in outcry. I should expect it to propound that Parliament is no authority in medicine ; that to protect us from dangerous treatment by ignorant pretenders , Parliament enacts medical degrees as mere tests of knowledge, but it must not dictate to those who have displayed their knowledge by gaining the degree. Nor is it to the purpose to say that Parliament took advice of physicians before it legislated. Some 30 or 40 years ago, when homeopaths first disused bleeding for apoplexy and fever, the disapproval of their conduct by the orthodox medical faculty was so universal and so vehement, that Parliament might easily have got medical warrant to enforce bleeding. Nay, 100 years ago , physicians were zealous for inoculation . My father was with difficulty saved from it by the sturdy refusal of his mother, who said (as she told me) - " If God send smallpox on my child, I must bear it ; but never will I consent to give it to him on purpose : how can anyone know what would come of it ? " At that time Parliament might have been advised by educated and learned physicians to make inoculation compulsory ; and I make no doubt those physicians spoke as dogmatically to my grandmother in favour of it , as any can now speak of vaccination : by the advice of physicians, inoculation is now made penal ! It is certainly possible that by the advice of physicians vaccination also will hereafter be made penal . Medicine is a changing and let us hope) progressive Art: it has no pretension to be Science, or to have any fixedness at all . The article in the Quarterly Review of April, 1869 , entitled " The Aims of Modern Medicine,” is a storehouse of fact detailed RB.23.2 ,31271 ) 2 for those who are too young to remember what it narrates of medical error, pernicious on the hugest scale. Medicine cannot improve, unless the younger and fresher minds among physicians are left perfectly free to deviate from the routine of their elders. Nothing can justify Parliament in enacting a medical creed, or enforcing any special medical procedures. But if physicians must have hands unfettered, have patients no right to choose their physician ?— no right to repudiate treatment which they think quackery ? We all ought to be re- vaccinated periodically, according to the Lancet. Does then Parliament dare to enact such a thing ? It does not ; else I might be taken by force and vaccinated to- morrow. And if I understand the argument for compulsory vaccination , it cannot rightly stop short of this . I may be told that extreme danger requires extreme remedies. Well — I will put really extreme cases. In an age and country of barbarism , I am seized with the plague , or with a highly - infectious leprosy. If I have the plague, I am to be shot dead with arrows, and mould is to be heaped over me where I lie. If I have the leprosy, I am to be hunted into solitude, and there live , if I can. The law is hard, yet I might accept my fate without murmuring. One who is dangerous to society, whether from contagion or from mania, cannot retain ordinary social rights. Better for me to die outright than infect my kind nurses , for the miserable chance of lingering. To put me to death for plague is sharp law, no doubt; but the legislator would at least know that a pestilential body, once well covered with earth , does no further harm, so that the despotism effects its end : -at least it stops the contagion. I should feel that I died for my country's good. But if he enacted that I should be bled, or should have the sore places cut out, or that poison should be infused into my veins, he could never be sure that the public gained any benefit from his cruelties. A far more overwhelming proof is needed by the legislator than so very shifting a thing as medical advice. And here it is advice from one country only in all the world, and that where men peculiarly experienced in vaccination condemn it. One who carries disease with him is ostensibly dangerous. This and this only — justifies legislation against him. But when a man or child is ostensibly healthy, no case is made out for legislation at all. To enact that a healthy person shall have a disease lest hereafter he get a worse disease, is a form of despotism hard to parallel; and what is peculiarly disgraceful, it is directed against innocent infants alone, because they are helpless— it does not dare to attack us adults. This fact justly arouses parents to indignation. Let Parliament enact that every M. P. shall be at once vaccinated, and that it shall be done from arm to arm among them, every four or five years, as the doctors may prefer,—if they will enact such things concerning children. The law now says to a parent-" We are alarmed to see that your child has no disease. Cowpox(for the public good) it must have, with the chance of other hideous diseases: submit, or else make yourself a criminal, have your hair cropped, and dress in prison garb." Such legislation implies that Parliament is a Medical Pope, and would justify no end of monstrous violations of sacred personal right. The Lancet“ begs respectfully to tell me” that in the matter of“ vaccine lymph, the State (!) and private practitioners take great care.” Is this very comforting— very re-assuring— to one who has read Ira Connell's frightful case? I have a paper before 1 me- reprinted from the Lancet of Nov. 16, 1861— which contains a detailed account of 46 children in Piedmont being infected with loathsome disease— soon fatal to some of them— from receiving the lymph( called vaccine!) out of the arm of one child called(and supposed to be) healthy. As a surgeon cannot be omniscient he cannot know the diseases hidden in a particular child; he is not to blame for not knowing; but this is precisely the reason why Parliament ought much rather to forbid than to enforce the vaccinating of one child from another. It makes the enforcement so indefensible, that one is unwilling to affix the right epithet. But even if cows would kindly get cowpox for our convenience, so that each child might have the disease direct from the cow, even so it would be blind tyranny for the law to say to a parent—" You shall not keep your child in perfect health : that is too dangerous a course.” When to this the parent replies by defiance of the law, and is treated as a criminal, the law-makers are in my opinion) the real criminals before God and man. Parents who become martyrs by resisting the law, deserve a sympathy akin to those who are martyrs of religion, 4 Nature and Conscience versus Law , Many parents who are unbelievers in the efficacy of Vaccination, and whose paternal instincts and consciences rebel against the Compulsory Vaccination Laws, are nevertheless afraid to refuse compliance with them , because they have not a clear understanding of their duty, or a definite idea of the legitimate claims of human laws upon their obedience. Laws which ordain usages that are contrary to our paternal instincts are unnatural, and those which oppress the conscience are unjust ; and in either case we ought to be prepared to accept the conditions imposed upon us for our non- compliance with them . George Fox, the founder of the Quakers, took this position ; and in reply to the accusation of disloyalty, said : - “ We obey the law , for it offers us this alternative- the freedom of our bodies with slavery of conscience ; or , imprisonment and free consciences : and we choose the latter.” A consistent adherence to their principles has won for the Quakers a freedom which has never been enjoyed by any other body of Nonconformists. We say , therefore, the people ought not to obey any law which sins against nature or conscience. Animal instinct, manifested by the involuntary effort to save the life of our offspring, is the natural conscience ; and human instinct is the voluntary effort to save our moral life : and to forfeit these is to sink beneath the level of " the beasts that perish .” But we are asked — May not our consciences be at fault ? We answer -- Certainly not ; but to enforce compliance with laws which are in opposition to our most sincere convietions of duty, is to paralyse conscience, to demoralise men, and to induce a state of political rottenness which must inevitably be followed by national dissolution . If our law-makers would command the confidence of the people, they must legislate wisely, and not bring into antagonism our consciences and our instincts with unjust and cruel laws . John Parton Berry, M.R.C.V.s. Northampton. From the “ Co-operator and Anti-Vaccinator ,” price 1d. F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, E. C. Further information may be had from Henry Pitman, 41 , John Dalton - street, Manchester. Miss J, Green , Printer, Manchester , BRITIES ROS TERAR is 