" TRUTH CRUSH'D ON EARTH WILL RISE AGAIN .”  Lii COMPULSORY VACCINATION !! A CRIME AGAINST NATURE !! AN OUTRAGE UPON SOCIETY !! A LIBEL UPON THE WISDOM AND GOODNESS OF THE CREATOR !! A MEDICAL DELUSION !! A LEGISLATIVE BLUNDER !! AND A DARK BLOT UPON OUR CIVILIZATION !! BY W. HALKET, ASSOCIATE OF THE MEDICAL REFORM SOCIETY, LONDON, ETC., I and 3 , PRATT STREET, ( LATE OF HIGH STREET, CAMDEN TOWN) . PRICE O N E Ρ Ε Ν Ν Υ . LONDON : PRINTED BY G. MEYERS, STEAM PRINTER, CORNER OF HAWLEY CRESCENT, KENTISH TOWN ROAD. a .1 (6)  Mr. HALKET may be Consulted on all Diseases Daily, GENUINE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES, BOTANIC & ECLECTIC MEDICINES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION . We have for many years laboured to reform medicine - State protected medicine ; to make medicine truly the Healing Art, and not, as Byron and others anathematized it , " the destructive art of healing.” We must not now, however, become Byronical. We are glad to see the increasing numbers that are now duly appreci ating “ The Medicine of Nature, ” which was alone intended for 1 man , and the only medicine that can successfully cure disease in all its forms, without inflicting other diseases. The remedies of nature are essentially healing remedies, free from everything destructive or injurious. From extensive experience, and in daily medical practice for many years, we have had many opportunities of observing the evil consequences of Vaccination, and meeting also with others whose medical experience on this question very closely agrees with our own. We have attended many cases of disease arising from Vacci nation, and also cases of Small -pox, amongst French and German, 2 as well as English. We have found no difficulty in curing  smallpox  , while some of the diseases from Vaccination are incurable. Any further information or statistics upon this question, and also all anti - vaccination literature—the works of Dr. Collins, Dr. Skelton, Dr. Pearce, & c .-- can be obtained at 1 and 3, Pratt Street (one door from High Street) , Camden Town. BRAH     COMPULSORY VACCINATION, BY W. HALKET, ASSOCIATE OF THE MEDICAL REFORM SOCIETY , ETC ., . 1 $ 3 , PRATT STREET, Camden Town, ( Late of HIGH STREET). The history ofmedicine unfolds to us some of the strangest delusions and wonders of human folly. Truth here is stranger than fiction. It might, however, have been expected that we, livingin this reputed age of science, progress, and enlightenment, had left all glaring follies and errors far behind us in the distance ; yet in this latter half of the nineteenth century , in this centre of civilization, we are now the victims of aa folly which but for our familiarity with it would appear the strangest of all - that folly is VACCINATION !! It will not be by arguments drawn from the minutiæ of anatomy, from the microscopic appearance or analysis of the blood, from vague technicalities, from thedead languages, nor from anything too learned to be understood, by which it will be proved in this place that  vaccination has been a curse and not a blessing — a pure evil, unmixed with good. For about 5,500 years our world knew nothing of Vaccination ; how it was that men throughout that vast period of time enjoyed health, strength, and long life without Vaccination is a mystery, which its advocates have not yet quite clearly explained. Nay, evenhow it was that an unvaccinated world ever lived to behold its deliverer, the im mortal Jenner, discoverer of Vaccination !! who came so late in the day. How it was that thewhole human race did not entirely and for ever perish, if Vaccination is so essential to our health and preservation as it is now declared to be, is one of those dark mysteries, concerning which our world needs an interpreter. Doubtless we shall be told, that throughout these ages smallpox did not exist, and Vaccination was unnecessary. This, however, was not the case. It has been shown that smallpox is a disease of great antiquity, especially in eastern nations. But whatever may be said about  smallpox  during those ages, one thing is certain, that human nature existed, which under similar circumstances is always liable to similar diseases. Nature is uniform , and immutable in her actionl ; her laws, like the Medes and Persians, change not. Then how was it that during this last fifty years Vacci    nation became necessary, when it never was necessary during the vast ages that had previously rolled away ? If necessary now , it was neces sary then . The nature of things remaining the same, - unnecessary then, unnecessary now. If history is philosophy, teaching by example, then it must be admitted that if our world endured nearly 6,000 years without Vaccination , that this was a pretty good lesson , and also avery fair time to put the system of learning How not to do it, fairly upon its trial. And making due allowance for the ignorance of the laws of health that prevailed amongst the GREAT UNVACCINATED, we must say that the system appears to have answered pretty well; at all events, > it stood the test, the wear and the tear of time, the grand crucible through which to try all systems. The advocates of Vaccination do not very readily throw up their brief. They cling with remarkable tenacity to their Cause, ever ready to show forth the good that Vaccination has done; ever lamenting the eternal stupidity of those who cannot 'see that  smallpox  has declined and passed away just as Vaccination became general and compulsory. This stupidity or blindness grieves them much; they sometimes lose all patience with it, and will not reason upon the subject at all. We are not oblivious to the fact that smallpox has greatly disap peared since the beginning of the present century ; yet we do not admit Vaccination as the cause. There are two causes to which we attribute the decline of  smallpox  in its epidemic form . First-From , a natural law pertaining to all epidemics, to exhaust themselves and die out, like plague, hurricane, thunder-storm , &c.; they cannot con tinue ; even as they come, so they go. Secondly ,-From greater scien tific knowledge and sanatory reformations. We therefore believe that  smallpox  did and must necessarily have declined from this inherent law, common to all epidemics, and also from sanitary improvements, but not from Vaccination, which we will briefly show is not a prophy lactic or protection , but a predisposing cause of smallpox in its malig nant or confluent form . We have several cases recorded of patients being vaccinated just previous to, and others while suffering from , an attack of smallpox; also cases of children who have been vaccinated on the one arm and inoculated with the smallpox virus on the other arm , and in all cases the two diseases have run their course concurrently together in the same individual, thus proving that the two diseases are not antagonistic, nor the one a prophylactic ( protection ) against the other. If the vaccine virus cannotthus protect from  smallpox  when both are present in the blood atthe same time, can it possibly haveany protective power throughout a lifetime, or even at any period of time after the operation. Clearly, it cannot. · An attack of small -poxwe find gives no protection against a second, or even a third attack . · We may therefore rest assured that cow- pox or the vaccine disease never can protect from smallpox. Cow -pox is a distinct disease, transmitted from the beast;it is neither identical nor yet antagonisticin its nature to smallpox. Upon what principle, then , can it protect ? Evidently there is none, which daily experience as well as theory fully proves. How absurd, then, by Vaccination, to give what is called a modified form ofsmallpox as a protection, when even a severe attack of  smallpox  itself is to protection against a second and a third attack. The    3 reports of the Small -pox Hospital, London, show that out of every 100 patients admitted with smallpox, about 84 had been vaccinated, and only the small minority of 16 had smallpox who had not been vaccinated. These reports show that so far from Vaccination being any pro tection , it simply gives you five chances to one to take  smallpox  ; or that by being vaccinated you are five times more likely to take smallpox than if you had been vaccinated. never Most potent, strange, and wondrous protection !!! We, however, think that it is time the eyes of the public were opened, and this pro tection fallacy for ever exploded. We have but lately been made acquainted with the case of a young person vaccinated three times, and had  smallpox  three times. Cases, however,are quite common, some of which we have ourselves attended, of persons who had beenvaccinated having  smallpox , not in a modified, but in its malignant or confluent form . Cases also have occurred of persons dying from smallpox who had been vaccinated. Others have been reported of patients being twice attacked with  smallpox , and dying from the second attack , who had also been vaccinated. We simply refer to these cases to show that Vaccination does not modify nor protect from  smallpox , but appears to act as a predisposing cause thereto, and also to a variety of other diseases, as will afterwards be shown. Every child vaccinated carries with it a corrupt abnormal disorganized condition of the blood, the prey of numerous diseases, against which it would otherwise have been proof. To keep the blood pure and the health vigorous is our only protection against disease in all its Protean forms; but to inoculate the blood with rotten diseased beastly matter as a protection against any disease, is one of the greatest mistakes men can commit. Does anyone suppose that by such a process he can cheat nature, or evade her penalties ? Alas ! the only one here cheated is the victim of this delusion, and he is very much cheated too-cheated out of his fancied protection, and into something far worse than that. His loss is great. Another of the fallacies of the faculty is, that because small -pox generally cannot be superinduced after Vaccination by inoculation with variolous matter, therefore they assume that the system ever afterwards, or at least for a long period, is proof against  smallpox . If a meteo rologist were to assume that because he could not induce a thunder storm just after a thunder-storm had spent its utmost violence, there fore the atmosphere ever afterwards was proof against thunder -storms, soon , with what would you think of his science ? Nature would argu ments beautiful as sheet lightning, and condensed like thunderbolts , peal forth a sublime refutation of this argument. After a thunder storm the electrical condition of the atmosphere is changed, the causes for the time removed ; but let the causes be in operation, and the at mosphere soon again becomes ready for the charge. So it is with  smallpox  and vaccination. The vis medicatrix nature, where it has the power, eliminates their kindred poisons from the blood ; and these diseases cannot easily be superinduced, the condition of the blood being changed, the affinity for the disease is removed. If any disease was theninduced at all , it would most probably be some other distinct and more fatal type of disease, possibly terminating in death. Nature     6 never cares to go over the same ground twice ; her course is downwards, from one step to another -- or upwards. But after either vaccination or smallpox, let the constitution just recovered be again subjected to the causes of variolous disease — filth , foul air, impurewater, bad food, putrid meat, sewage miasms, overcrowding, &c. , and smallpox orsome worse disease will again , like the thunder-storm , burst forth as violent as before. Nature gives no capricious protection against diseases ; vio late her eternal laws and she will ever punish you, if she allows you to exist at all. Observe her laws, and you can afford to smile at these so called prophylactics, which turn out so many broken reeds the moment you have to depend upon them , and, like amulets and charms, elixirs of life, philosophers' stones, &c. , is doomed for that vast lumber-room to which all errors, absurdities, and superstitions must be consigned. Another fallacy of Vaccination is, that when disease or death super venes, it did not arise from vaccination , but from a latent disease lurking in the system, which vaccination but made visible or developed. Now this plea in most cases must be totally unfounded, and urged as the only possible defence of a dangerous and fatal system . Who shall prove the latent disease ? Where are the facts, means, or process by which it will be shown that a latent disease existed in a child, manifesting itself in no other way than by disease or death following immediately after vaccination. Clearly there can be no such facts, nor is their existence required. Vaccination itself is amply sufficient to account for the result. The vaccine virus, as already observed, is diseased, rotten matter that nature has thrown off through the sores or ulcers of a diseased cow , or from diseased human beings, originally coming from the cow. To inoculate a healthy child with this matter, to force again upon nature this destructive virus, which she has already laboured to throw off, can only, according to the eternal law or fitness of things, produce disease or death, for that is its nature, it has no other. * Where, then, is the consistency of supposing a latent disease to account for these results following Vaccination, which it is the especial nature of the vaccine virus itself to produce ? This, to say the least, is to violate a simple rule of philosophy — multi plying causes without necessity ; we may as reasonably assume that nearly all diseases have a latent existence in the system , and only re quire certain stimuli or conditions to excite and develop them . But supposing we admit that Vaccination is nothing more than astimuli or condition by which a latent disease suddenly jumps into full activity, terminating in death ; that alone would be quite a sufficient argument against Vaccination, experience showing us that even where astrong * Where Vaccination does not produce disease, it only indicates that the system had the power to expel the poison, to cast out the enemy which was at tempted to be thrust upon it, and furnishes no proof whatever in favour of Vaccination, No one can predicate what the results of Vaccination will be : whether death, immediately or remotely ; whether disease, immediately or re motely ; whether life-long_suffering and deformity ; or whether there shall be no apparent results at all. Vaccination, however , takes care to sow the seed ; and if the harvest or the results do not follow , then no thanks to Vaccination , but to the vis medicatrix natura - the maternal beneficence of nature, ever trying to . hoal and to protect her children .     7 predisposition exists in the system to any particular disease, yet by carefully avoiding or removing the exciting causes of that disease, the disease has been warded off, and frequently the system has outgrown the tendency. But if Vaccination is to be defended on this ground, then, also, might any criminal arraigned at the bar of justice on the charge of poisoning also plead that it was not the poison he adminis tered that caused death ; that it only stirred up a latent disease in the system . As a jury would refuse to entertain such a plea , so will the public, doubtless, refuse to entertain this defence of Vaccination. Another fallacy of Vaccination is , that the disease only cow -pox ), and not the nature of the beast, is transmitted to the child by Vaccination. It has been doubted whether so much association and meditation with the cows had not some mysterious influence upon the cerebral organi zation of Jenner ; but as a whole host of these speculations and doubts would not amount to one proof or argument, therefore we entirely dismiss them . Certain it is, however, that the effect of his so -called discovery has been to brutalize, as well as to disease mankind; and that not by any vague, doubtful, metaphysical, mysterious, magnetic, or mesmeric influence, but by physical inoculation of the blood itself. It must be remembered that this diseased matter from the beast is, by the very process of Vaccination, forced upon the blood of a human being, unchanged and unassimilated in its nature. Were it anything passing through the stomach, or other sources of nutrition and absorption, then nature, by her own elaborate chemistry, her intricate processes of selec tion , assimilation, and elimination, would utilize, assimilate, or reject it , accordingto her own requirements, unless it happened to be an active deadly poison, that would interrupt or destroy the vital organs before they could effect this object. Buthere we repeat, this diseased inhuman matter is forced upon the child's blood just as it is, unchanged and un assimilated, and in a manner that nature never intended that any matter, however good in itself, to be thrust upon the system , much less the putrid corruptions already expelled from beasts . It is vain to urge that the infinitesmally small amount of matter used in Vaccination could not possibly transmit in any degree the nature of the beast. None who have descended to study nature in the infinitude of her minutive could urge this objection, which would equally prove that the disease of the beast ( cow -pox) could not be so transmitted, which is contrary to the fact. When we reflect that every feature and peculiarity of our being - our hereditary diseases, infirmities,stature, hue of ourskin, and the possible length of our days, all once lay, wrapt up and enclosed within one small indistinguishable germ—we will cease to wonder that nature should as definitely, and as certainly , act on the minutest , as well as on the most stupendous scale, both alike infinitely surpassing all human comprehension. Let it then be fully understood that however infini tesmal the matter used in Vaccination,it carrieswith it the nature as well as the diseases of the beast. On a similar principle, when a human being, a having been bitten by a dog suffering from hydrophobia, is inoculated with the disease and madness of the dog ; the human being here is simply inoculated from a diseased dog , as a child is inoculated, or vaccinated, from a diseased cow ; the difference consisting only in the nature of the disease and the source from which it was transmitted.   8 In Jenner's time, those who were vaccinated had to bear the jibes and the jeers of simple vulgar minds, about horns and hoofs growing out upon them , and becoming more or less metamorphosised into the like ness of a cow, or other animal, from which they were inoculated. This was but a very rustic appreciation of a very delicate truth, which, though not literally true, yet more true in spirit than has yet been suspected. True, the physical horns and hoofs do not show themselves, yet the mental horns and cloven hoofs too frequently shoot out. What can result from this practice but the mental and physical degradation of our race. It is vain to disguise the fact tobe inoculated with diseased , beastly matter, can only produce beastliness and disease ; that is its nature — it has no other. Vipers do not produce lambs, nor vultures turtledoves; need we wonder then that insanity is one of the results of Vaccination --that an insurmountable stupidity has been observed in some children from the time they were vaccinated, no symptom of which appeared prior to that time. Need we wonder, while this practice con tinues, at the wide- spread deterioration and demoralization of our race, about which so many philanthropic minds bewail, lament, and write volumes to prove and to remedy. Need we wonder that there is so little of the divine, the intellectual, and the moral in man , while his blood is thus depraved and brutalized with the diseased corruptions of beasts. The wonder to any philosophic mind would be not at these results, but if any other results flowed from such causes. Then only would such a mind begin to doubt the existence of law, order, and philosophy in nature. Health, to the Vaccinator, is the one grand original evil or plague,out of which spring all others. He regards health as a greatmistake or blunder of nature. He discernsin every pure and healthy child the seeds of a coming plague, or an epidemic of smallpox, which will scatter death and disease throughout the land, sweeping all before it. Thus premised , he naturally reasons,—this state of health must be stopped, or it will stop us — disease must be produced—this pure stream must bepoisoned at its source — this mistake of nature corrected --therefore, Vaccinate ! Vaccinate !! Vac cinate !!! Give every child the cow -pox, or we are all dead men. Nothing on earth can save us but cowpox . 0 , Immortal Jenner ! Lancets and Lymph !! Lymph and Lancets!!! Such is the logic of the vaccinator, and it is rare good logic too. Very different, however, is the logic of the anti-vaccinator; he regards pure health as the highest earthly blessing, and the only true protection against disease in all its forms. To produce disease , where health alone exists , is to him a crime against påture, an impious interference with divine perfection. To meddle here is but to mar. To do evil that good may come, is not one of the tenets of his creed, much less to do evil when no good comes, but only evil , and that continually, which is the case with Vaccination, when it is now so fully proved that it does not prevent  smallpox , but does produce many other loathsome, terrible, and fatal diseases. There might besomething rational in inoculating human beings with the blood of some higher and purer being than man, could we but stumble across such a being,and who would allow us to extract a few drops of the ethereal fluid. Even then the value of the process might be doubted by some outrageous sceptic. But in descending to the 4. beasts, and what is worse, to the diseased filthy excretions of beasts, selecting an animal virus so destructive in its nature, then we think that those who entertain a doubt upon the subject ought not to be branded as being utterly destitute of all reason and human sympathy. The skin clearly is for the purpose of protecting the blood and the system from injury, from poisonous extraneous substances, & c. But here again the vaccinator bursts through all bonds, restraints , and ordi nances of nature, just as if they did not exist, or at least for him had no existence, and with an instrument, sharper than any two- edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of this beautiful integument, the skin, he there inserts this precious germ of corruption, disease, and death, where it may , in due time, bring forth an abundant harvest. A writer upon this subject has stated that Vaccination, in many cases, disorganizes the blood, and is attended with symptoms similar to the sting of a serpent or the bite of a venemous reptile, in some cases rapidlyproducing death, in others, the arm was amputated to save the life. But the similarity does not end here. The operation itself, as well as its consequences, is remarkably like the sting of a serpent; if how ever we pursue the simile further, it would of course make out the vac cinator to be the serpent, and such a hydra -headed monster, trying to sting every child born, and to pass a law that none shall escape his fangs. Was ever any stinging like unto this stinging ? He inserts a sting with which art has furnished him, for nature never intended that he should sting at all, or she would have, doubtless, in her munificence and provision, have endowed him with the article, and also with the necessary venom ; but nature refuses her sanction, she has made herself no party to suchproceedings. A person suffering from an infectious disease is more or less a dangerous member of society, and society has aright to be protected. But a tender infant, three months old , pure and healthy, is not, as we apprehend, such a dangerous member of society , as should compel us to take up arms against it — to lay hands and instruments upon it, for the protection of society. These young innocents, we believe, are not in the habit of makingsuch serious attacks upon the State as to justify the State in passing this Compulsory Law against them . They do not carry revolvers, at least we have not heard of one being found upon them ; a neither, we believe, are they in the habit of making an armed invasion upon the rights and privileges of the medical profession to such an extent as tocompel the whole race of doctors to rise up in arms or in lancets - against them . Neither, we believe, do they assail or deal such heavy blows upon thehealth, liberties, or safety of the public generally as to justify society in asking protection from them . Then why all this outcry about protection and such protection ! We consider, then, that all this fear, terror, uproar, furor, this rushing to arms, and standing, daggers drawn, against these young innocents is very much out of place--- zeal greatly misdirected ! These vaccinators appear to be troubled withstrange dreams of impending evils, variola, coming epidemics, &c. They appear sometimes to havethe nightmare, strange visions, phantasies, and terrible things keep fleeting before their affrighted eyes, where only a little angel is visible; and while in that condition they seize hold of a poisoned lancet, and commit this foul  10 deed, Vaccination ! Yes, Vaccination is indeed the nightmare of medi cine, the dread of some fancied demon, having no existence but in the brain of the dreamer -- the dark spectre of trembling ignorance. A terrible dream of the night, which the noon-day of intelligence will most assuredly dispel, and scatter for ever to the winds of heaven. The only way to remove or to stamp out small - pox is to remove the causes of smallpox. We, in common with a few others, have an idea that the effect cannot well bappen without the cause.  smallpox  is an effort of nature to throw off diseased corrupt matter from the system . But how, in the first place, does this diseased corrupt matter get there? Science and experience shows us that whatever the specific nature of this virus (  smallpox ) may be, that its producing or exciting causes are: filth and impurities of all kinds, foul air, bador impurefood, drink, dwelling drainage, uncleanliness, overcrowding, &c. Remove these causes, and  smallpox  becomes so very small, that there is none at all the disease is gone, taken to itself wings and fled, and also a great variety of others with it--all thesebirds of a feather fly away together. That family of diseases to which smallpox belongs is a very large family : a consumption, scrofula, cancer, erysipelatous and tuberculous disease, the 1 diseases of childhood,fevers, measles, whooping cough, diphtheria, inflam mations, diseases of the blood, &c. , & c ., andall this family, smallpox included, by the means just proposed , take their flight together. Were we, therefore, to pay the £ 350,000 annually to remove all the causes of smallpox, which we pay to doctors, who leave these causes untouched, and who also inoculate our blood with the diseases of beasts or other dis eased bodies, thus adding a greater evil than the first, while it does not remove the first, then there would be some probability of realizing that which now seems to many but an idle dream , -stamping out smallpox, and also the entire family of diseases to which it belongs, originating as theydo from the same common causes. We must, however, admit that to stamp out smallpox in this way would not quite harmonize with the established principles of medical practice. smallpox would be removed certainly, which is one thing, but not scientifically removed, which is everything. In this age of science we cannot stoop to listen to the pretensions of reason or com mon sense. Everything must be done scientifically and in order. There is then a scientific and an unscientific method of curing disease . Some stupid novices have an idea that to cure a disease means to remove it entirely, the absurdity of which will at once appear when we come to contrastthis idea with the popular and scientific method of cure. To cure a disease scientifically, then , is to introduce, produce, or induce another and a stronger disease, but one that will, if possible, agree or combine with the first disease ; at all events, the stronger to hold possession, to be able to keep out all other intruders who have no busi ness there. Hewho does not clearly understand this first principle of popular physic, is not fit for the profession, and had better betake him self to some other. You would like to have your disease curedentirely, would you, according to theunscientific method, and live in that semi barbarous condition called health ? Then it becomes our painful duty to inform you that you must emigrate to somebarbarouscountry, where there are no doctors, no science, and none of the crowning ornaments of 41 our gloriousconstitution. You are not worthy to remain in this highly civilized land- aland full of the achievements of art and science - full of the triumphs and trophies of a glorious civilization -- a land flowing with physic and doctors! Seen in this light, then , the whole philosophy of Vaccination at once becomes clear and intelligible. smallpox is a dreadful disease. Vaccination, looking at all its consequences, is still more dreadful, yet not antagonistic. Remove neither, but addthe one to the other, and medical science is triumphant !! Let us for a moment glance at this system , in order to discover if it possesses that immutability and consistency which is characteristic of truth. Wehave already remarked that for about 5,500 years Vaccina tion was unknown to the world, so dark and so benighted were the people of that time; but of course they all died . The Patriarchs were not vaccinated. Methuselah and his antediluvian contemporaries were not vaccinated, which fully accounts for their coming to such a sudden anduntimely end. A Jenner wouldhave been the saving of them ; he might have immortalized them as well as himself. A people with such remarkable proclivities, making such an attempt upon ,and having such a longing after, immortality, possessing such a hereditary taint of lon gevity in their blood, would have been very lively subjects upon which to have illustrated the efficacy of this wonderful prophylactic. But, alas! the blessings of Vaccination were not for them . It may be doubted if even the faintest ray or the remotest twinkling of its benefits ever entered their benighted minds. Ages upon ages had to roll away ere the world came to be in a duly qualified condition to produce a Jenner ! Nature is never in a hurry or in a bluster to produce her great works ; slowly and surely do they become matured. And as all great men who have astonished the world have generally had a herald or forerunner to prepare the way, coming events must cast their shadows before them , as they sometimes do drag along such a tremendous dark shadow after them ; so Jenner must needs have his herald to prepare a > us for him , otherwise the refulgence and brilliancy of his discovery might have completely blinded us, and this last plight would have been worse than the first. The herald in this instance, strange to say, was in the person of a lady. And yet not so strange; we do not see why a a lady should not take precedence of a gentleman, at least the former to let us know the latter is coming. Lady Mary Wortley Montague then, in 1720, about seventy years prior to the Jennerian discovery, in troduced inoculation into England from Constantinople, which at first met with terrible opposition, especially from the physicians and also the clergy of that day. They denounced it as an impious interference with Providence, and as the real Antichrist. But the Royal College of Physicians soon after became converts, and adopted that which they had formerly denounced as a diabolical practice. Inoculation was now wita them the thing. However, it soon turned out not to be the thing. It was found to be as bad and more certain than the plague or epi demic itself, many dying from it ; and was ultimately put down, not by the physicians, but by an Act passed, making it penal to inoculate. Now was the time fully come for Jenner. Jenner arose, and all was light! The powers of darkness and disease fled ; they had stood their ground long, but they could stand it no longer. It was too much ;  12 such an adventwas the signal for their retreat. Now the light that was to fill the whole earth dawned forth in Gloucestershire - Vaccina tion discovered !! The missing link found between man and the cattle, the bond of sympathy, the union of distant relatives. Another belp mate for man; another afflicted man's companion , sympathizer, and friend, his mutual friend and protector. The elixir of life and pre servative of humanity discovered in the sores of a cow ; there was balm in Gloucestershire, and a physician there. These sores of the cow was the healing balm for man ; by its sores we are healed. The cow is our scape -goat. Cow -pox a preventive of small - pox ! Ву the talismanic touch of their corruption or diseased matter applied to our blood, we are saved ! Wonderful preternatural prophylactical dis covery !! To this was time advancing: to this the ages roll and the genial seasons run. Shout, О earth ; rejoice every isle of the sea ! 0 let the nations be jubilant; let the world sing its Pæans, Te Deums, and its songs of deliverance. Now has it seen its deliverer; now has it triumphed over its enemy - Variolous Disease. But we must hasten to notice the consistency and certainty of this system . Jenner told the profession and members of parliament, which was afterwards published to the world, that a “ single puncture " with lymph from the cow would secure immunity for life from  smallpox , for which a credulous government awarded to him £ 30,000 of the nation's wealth. However,this “ single puncture”" completely failed ;; two,three, and four on each arm have since been tried and failed . The Lancet, with a heroism worthy of the instrument, says, “ six punctures are better than four, and eight better than six ; and they should be made deep ;" and the cry is, still they come,” that is, the smallpox. All having failed , yet the faith of the worshippers of Baal has not failed ; they still believe that he is a god, only he may be talking, pursuing, or on a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth, and must be awakened. Therefore they still cut and puncture with knives and lancets, till the blood gushes out, yet no voice, answer, nor any that regarded. Now they advocate re-vaccination every ten, seven , orthree years, some say every year, on Christmas morning before dinner, others suggest every morning before breakfast ; some say, vaccinate at three months, others say six, others twelve months, and some wish it postponed till they arrive at their hundredth year, as a mark or memorial of their centen arianism . Some say take the matter from the cow, various others say from the horse, thesheep, the swine, the goat, theheifer,* from arm to Some say inoculate, others say vaccinate. Almost everything in arm . its turn is said and done with about the same result, that is, no result, or only an evil result. And now we ask, can truth , reason, or science * Wehave often wondered , amongst the variety of animals from which it has been attempted to inoculate poor humanity , why they have never made an attempt for this purpose on his Imperial Majesty, the Ass ! They may consider that there is not so much necessity for that, or that it is better for society to be cowed , as the burlesque in the other case might become too transparent. We consider, however, that during 50 years' Vaccination, we have had quite enough of the cow, and would propose for the remainder of the century to infuse another element into humanity, to inoculate from the lion, as an antidote to the cow ; we mean from a healthy lion, not one suffering from lion -pox. 13 > > dwell with such system as this ? Verily, the whole thing is a gigantic delusion, bearing the inscription, “ Mene, Mene, Tekel Upharsin . But it is not only a gigantic delusion, it is a most fatal delusion. O, what multitudes of victims have been offered up at its shrine, what hosts have suffered and died in obedience to its decrees. What a mighty harvest the nations of the earth are now reaping of corruption, disease, and death. Compulsory Vaccinationwill be found but a huge monster system for the poisoning of human blood, exceeding anything that can be found throughout the whole records of barbarism . It has been shown that there is not one physiological, pathological, therapeutical, nor any one of the great principles ofthe healing art that harmonizes with this practice, and that it must, therefore, be the offspring of empiricism , a professional or state quackery imposed upon the people. That such a doctrine should have become popular in a free and enlightened country, is indeed strange ; that it should be received, advo cated, and practised by men professing medical science is yet more strange ; but that it should be legalized and made compulsory by the State, is the strangest and crowning incident in its strange history. Verily, there is a soul of goodnessin things evil, and this movement, now assuming serious proportions, will doubtless cause the relations subsist ing betwixt the Stateand the Profession to be more closely enquired into, and also how far the medical profession is worthy of that confidence which has been reposed in them ; how far they have ministered to the public good or to their own interest ; to discover, also, what authority the state has to force upon the nation any sectarian medical dogma or creed, upon which the profession itself is divided, and to lavish away the nation's wealth for the compulsory observance thereof, in opposition to the sincere convictions and desires of many who have found by sad experience that it destroys instead of protecting the health and the lives of their children . This law is an unnatural and unconstitutional law, not merely because it comes in collision with the natural instincts of the people, butpassed, as it was, without the voice or will of the nation being consulted in the matter. A parliament in an evil hour, late on one eventful night, or rather, we believe, early in the morning, when many of its members were absent and asleep, and those who were present were in a very similar condition , none of them professed to understand the measure- thus in a dark midnight hour, when evil spirits were abroad, when nearly all slept save a few doctors, who were rather awake, whose dictum or nostrum carried the night, this Act was passed, this deed was done. It was a deed worthy of the night, dark as the night. No light shone on it, the blackness of darkness hovered around it . It was a deed thatcan but live in the night ; light is fatal to its being. If, however, the voice of the nation wasnot heard in passing this Act, wewould say, let your voice be most unmistakeably heard in its repeal. Tolerate no longer this monstrous unnatural tyranny, which not only invades the sanctity and purity of the domestic hearth of your house, said to be your castle, but of the blood of your children, which should be dearer to you than all; invading their blood, too, but for the pur pose of placing there a foul enemy to their health andlife, carrying with а it a lie in its mouth, that it will protect from disease, when it is initself the very essence and cause of disease. Let us sweep away this dark  14 foul blot, which would never have of our existed at all to stain the pages history, and to poison our blood, had the people been awake,had they looked after their own affairs instead of allowing a few doctors and slumbering members, who are the servants of the nation, to become its tyrants, and to create this monstrous unnatural despotism in a free country. It is too late in the day to tell us that Vaccination is made compul sory for the general good and protection of society. Who that hath eyes to see, or ears to hear, shall speak of its protection. But if the majority of society still believe in its protection, then let them vaccinate ; and if Ďaccination is protection, they are protected. What morecan they want ? Do they wantto thrustit upon those who have no faith in it ? who, from sad experience and observation, know it to be an evil and not a good, a poisoner and destroyer of life, not its protector ; who have found it no preventive of  smallpox , with which their children have been severely attacked soon after the operation, as if nature were mocking them who had thus tried to mock nature. And are those who have seen and felt all this to be compelled to vaccinate their children , which they believe to be almost equivalent to murder, or about one of the worst evils they could inflict upon them . Who shall compel these to vaccinate ? We do not like compulsion, we do not like to becompelled even to take our dinner; it is very pro bable that we shall take our dinner if but let alone, but if compelled, we turn round to resist the compulsion, as dining under such circumstances would most certainly choke us. This compulsion resolves itself into something like an argument that Vaccination is a great evil and not a good, since it requires to be forced upon the people. If they saw any good in it, or that it was necessary to health, theywould be but too glad to have it, and even to pay for it, as they do for the necessaries of life or health . Nature's voice to her children is, be pure , be strong, in no other way can you be protected against disease, or enjoy the pleasure of health . The ways of purity are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace ; but theways of impurity, Vaccination and inoculation , areways ofsadness andcorruption, leading downwardsto the chambers ofdeath . Aplague or epidemic is but nature speaking a little louder than usual to her children when they become rather deaf and heedless, to attend more closely to the laws of their being, to cleanse away and remove all impurity. Pure bodies, pure air, pure food, pure water, pure dwellings, pure cities; and then no epidemic, plague, orthe pestilence that walketh in darkness and destroyeth at noon -day, shall come nigh thy dwelling. We venture to affirm that a plague orepidemic of anykind is amoral and physical impossibility where sanitary laws and the laws of health are observed. Then why not begin at the beginning, and make the observance of sanitary laws and the laws of health compulsory instead of making Vaccination compulsory, which does not remove the evil, but only adds evil to evil, filth to filth , corruption to corruption, beastliness to humanity, and is in itself and in its consequences a far greater evil than smallpox ever was. Is not the fact clear, palpable, and self evident, that to banish  smallpox  you must remove orbanish the cause of  smallpox  ; but to leave these causes untouched , and then endeavour to 16 remove  smallpox  by committing another evil, corrupting the blood of every child with diseased beastly matter, is madness beyond description. Vaccination never did , does not, and never will prevent smallpox ; Vaccination is in itself a great evil. It never was a necessary evilit; is an evil which never should have been committed at all, much less be made compulsory, Jenner recommended Vaccination only from the cow. In France and in Italy arm to arm Vaccination is strongly condemned, as it is to some extent in this country. They tell us that the lymph, becoming humanized, loses nearly all its protective properties, and that we must go back again to the cow ; but the cow no longer suffers from the disease, and they must inoculatethe cow from the human being to give it the disease. Then we are told that lymph produced in this way is not pro tective, and that we must again inoculate the cow from the greasy heel of the horse ; but the horse no longer, or but rarely, suffers from that disease, Now here is a fine ettle offish : nature trying to expunge a disease, originating infilth and human negligence, and man using allhis efforts to preserve and perpetuate the disease in his own species . Look at an infant with pure blood, born ofpure and healthy parents, its skin clear and shining like a shilling fresh from the mint, considered as it is the emblem ofpurity, and have also before you a rotten cow suffering from pox. Look at thefoul corroding virus exuding and passing off through its sores. Look at the diseased, dejected appearance of the animal. Look on the one picture and on the other. Does not the whole instinct of your nature cry out against bringing the rottenness of that cow in contact with thepure blood of your child - rottenness not even fit to be in the blood of a beast, for nature is there trying to exe crate and throw it off, or it will entirely destroy the beast ascertainly as sulphuric acid or the venom from the sting of a serpent will destroy. This operation is so monstrous, barbarous, and beastly, that one would think it could only be performed by beasts. But it is not. This crowning prodigy of science was reserved for man . The man who introduced this system most certainly deserves to be immortalized, not, however, as the benefactor of his species. Prometheus, we read , stole fire from heaven to animate a lump of clay, and living man was the result. But Jenner's process was somewhat the antithesis of this. Hestole death anddisease from cows, by which animated nature passes again into clay, and man returneth to his earth. The Creator stamped on man the divine image, but Jenner placed on him the mark of the beast. The Creator mademan's blood pure and perfect, and Jenner corrupted it with the diseased abominations of beasts. He opened Pandora's box , from which issued a multitude of evils and diseases, which have continued ever since to afflict mankind. Forwhat else, then, should he be immortalized, but as a corruptor of his species ; and a his followers as children that are corruptors, whomake merchandise of corruption and traffic in disease. smallpox is an effort or process of nature to throw off morbid, corrupt, destructive matter from the system ; it never comes but where nature's laws have been violated — where filth and corruption has abounded . It never comes but as a cleanser, a purifier, and a saviour. What madman shall , then , attempt to arrest or to prevent smallpox. Arrest or prevent  26 the causes of smallpox , make men yield obedience to nature's laws, make them pure and clean in all their ways, and then you do not require to prevent  smallpox  ; you are saved the trouble, for they never But if men are allowed to live in daily transgression of nature's come. laws, to wallow in impurity, filth, uncleanliness, &c . , then  smallpox  is the very best thing that can happen to expel the accumulating filth and corruption from their bodies , which would most certainly destroy them in some way or other were it not thrown off.  smallpox , then, is the safety -valve for the body when corruption in it rises to high pressure. It is, we believe, generally known that what was called the " greasy heel" of the horse, was the origin of this disease in the cows, the medium of communication being the hands of farm servants and milkers. This greasy heel of the horse was found complicated with a deeply rooted malady, with lung disease (consumption ). Lips, tongue, and gums covered with peculiar cankerous-looking ulcers , the fetor from the breath very offensive, the lungs congested, and its larger cavities filled with purulent matter, exactly corresponding to that exuding from its greasy heel. In fact, the whole animal became such a mass of corruption and disease that it had to be slaughtered to prevent a more lingering death. Behold here, then, the source of this stream of pollution and disease from which our race is inoculated. Behold here what “ pure > lymph” is when in its utmost original purity . * What can the stream be that flows from such a source ? From the rotten horse to the cow,from the rotten cow to human beings, and sometimes direct from the horse to human beings. Can such matter be a protection against any disease , or anything but a source of the most foul beastly and fatal diseases ? Can a clean thing come out of an unclean ? Need we wonder that consumption has become so prevalent, when this virus descends from a consumptive rotten horse. Need we wonder that about one half of the children vaccinated die under five years of age.t Need we wonder that * All this late outcry about " pure lymph ” is pure downright absurdity. There never was, can, or will be pure lymph taken from the ulcerous sores or pustules (cowpox or smallpox) of any human being or beast on the face of the earth . All such matter isthe very opposite of purity, it is putrid corrup tion, rottenness, filth ; a foul destructive virus, a fatal enemy to health and life , an outcast of nature. of “ Out of 1000 children born in London, only 592 remain alive at the end of five years ; in Birmingham , only 518 ; in Leeds, only 520 ; in Manchester, only 490 ; and in Liverpool, only 470.-Report of Registrar General. 100,000 persons die annuallyin England of preventible diseases, and 80,000 of the three following incurable diseases -- viz., 5,500 of cancer ; 9,800 of dropsy ; and 60,000 of tuber cular diseases ( consumption ). The number of licensed medical men in England is estimated at 20,000 ; the number of druggists, 30,000. Millions are annually expended in teaching medicine, and millions more in supporting her public hospitals and private medical institutions, and yet for all this the people do not live out half their days. Within the shores of these realms, 28,000,000 of > people dwell who have not only supplied her armies and set her fleets in motion, but have manufactured innumerable products, and are enıployed the investi gation of scientific truths, and the erection ofworks of inestimable value to the human race . These people do not live out half their days : 140,000 of them die every year unnatural deaths. Who will deliver the nation from these terrible enemies ? Who will confer upon theinhabitants of the United Kingdom the bless ings of health and long life ? His conquests would be wrought neither by 17 consumption , scrofula, and all blood diseases, are rapidly decimating our race, and diffusing themselves throughout the blood of the nation. How long will men fly in the face of nature, in the face of heaven's eternal laws, and the eternal fitness of things, by madly forcing this corrupt, diseased, putrid matter upon the tender infant, that nature has already excreted and thrown off from the beast, as being unfit even for the blood of the brute creation ? The evils that nature inflicts upon man are but few and trivial, but the evils that man inflicts upon himself,his fellows, and the whole creation under him, are many and terrible. Through him the horse suffered, through him the cow suffered, through him humanity suffers and groáns, and the innocents suffer and die. Human negligence, filth , bad stabling, produced this disease in the horse ; human hands transferred it from the horse to the cow ; human hands trans ferred it from the cow, by Vaccination, to the tender infants, to the human race. Man opened up this equine stream of pollution, and has so conducted and diffused it that it has now nearly spread over the whole of his race. Filth was its cause, its source. Filth is its sum . total and its consequence, its beginning and its end. Better sanitary conditions, recently introduced, has extinguished this disease amongst the cows, and very nearly so amongst horses. Man alone, in the lofti ness and transcendentalism of his wisdom , takes special care to per petuate and prolong the disease amongst his own species. He will not let this disease die out. He carefully collects and treasures up this elixir of death, as if it were the elixir of life, with which to inoculate every one of his own species as fast asthey come into being, and to pass an especial Act or law , that none shall escape his fangs. Such is man, the paragon of animals, the beauty of the world, the lord of creation ; in apprehension, how like an angel; in contemplation, how like a god ! How far this towering intellect of his raises him above the brutes, or sinks him below the level thereof, is sometimes difficult to determine. What right has any man to operate upon a pure and healthy child ? and for the purpose, too, of introducing corruption and disease into its blood ; to puncture and break through the integuments ( skin ) designed for its protection ; to violate the seal of nature, within which she has enclosed and protected such delicate and complex machinery. What right has any man to tamper with and to poison the pure blood of a child with this beastly virus ? to destroy the normal state of that blood, as nature made it and intended it should be ; to rob it of that purity and health which are its birthright, and the highest earthly gift that God ever gave to man, entailing upon that child the most lament able consequences, in many cases death, disease, deformity, or life -long suffering. No man on earth has this right ; no government has this right. Nature's laws are paramount and supreme, and must stand before all laws of men or governments. This compulsory Vaccination, which is a wanton outrage upon nature, a stupid blunder of man, betrays also an unaccountable blindness, ignorance, or entire suppression of wrong nor human slaughter , but by the application of the powers of nature to the improvement of mankind.” He who will deliver the nation from Vaccination , would , to an incalculable extent, fulfil the requirements here stated ; but he who wouldalso instruct the nation in the laws of health, and by some means compel their observance, would turn out to be the very man that Diogenes, with his lan, vyema tern is here looking for. 18 natural instincts on the part of those who submit to it. Natural in stincts, as well as the most enlightened reason , alike rebel against it. What a sad spectacle to behold, a profession and a government thus at open war with nature, both combining - whatever their intentions may be -to maim , wound, and slaughter the innocents ; to commit this irreparable injury upon young helpless humanity, and their natural guardians ( parents ), through ignorance, cupidity, or stupidity, permit the deed tobe done. The late Sir Robert Peel and two of our most eminent English judges declared that the people of England would never submit to this unnatural and compulsory Act. But, alas ! the people of England have disappointed them this time ; they have turned their backs to the smiter, andallowed their natural rights to be trampled in the dust. This compulsory Act is aviolation of naturaland parental rights, of the liberty of the subject; it is also a violation of the laws of a nature, which are the veritable laws of God. I would put the question to every father and mother, — Will you allow your children thus to be poisoned, corrupted , to sicken and to die, at the bidding of an Act of Parliament, instigated by a section of the - medical profession ? Endure any evils that heaven may send you for which there is no remedy -- with cheerfulness and resignation . But will you endure this ? A plague sent you by man , and which heaven never intended you should endure at all . O arise ! awake ! or be for ever fallen . I would ask every mother to resist, as many mothers are now nobly resisting, this cruel, unnatural, and barbarous law , which compels them to carry their children like lambs to the slaughter. Be imprisoned , fined , suffer for it—die for it, if that were necessary, sooner than submit to this monstrous unnatural tyranny. Other vile and despotic laws, that touched man on less tender points than this, have had their martyrs ; and why not this ? It were better to die at once, with a consciousness of your innocence,than to live to see and to feel that you had been the means, at the bidding of any government or profession , of infusing dis ease and death into the blood of your children. Death , surely, is pre ferable to such a life. Resistance to this Herodian enactment is obedi ence to heaven's first law. We are satisfied that He who said, “ Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, ” who took them up in his arms and blessed them, would not have stood by and seen them thus treated without making again a free use of his stripes, and of that treatment which the money -changers received in the temple, turning the tables against them , giving them also to understand that He made the human body pure , as a temple for the living God ; but they had corrupted it withthe diseases and abominations of beasts. To heal the sick, to remove the causes of disease , is the work of the physician ; but to inflict diseases on those who are in health by Vacci nation, or byany other means, is not his work. Who hath required this at his hands ? Who shall say that the Creator did not make his work perfect and complete, that He did not place every element or principle in the blood of the child necessary to its health, where the laws of its being are observed ? Yet Vaccination stands forth to assert this monstrous blasphemy! 19 The opinion is daily gaining ground that this error will very speedily have to be abandoned, that Vaccination will have to be removed, and all its works ; or a discerning public once awakened to the investigation of this question, may begin to suspect that a profession who could so long entertain and advocate sucha delusion as this, may not be altogether free from other delusions equally mischievous. Some may even revolt against the system altogether, throwing overboard the truth as well as a the error it contains. If this delusion is to be much longer adhered to, we may yet have a medical revolution. Many of the most eminent pro fessors and practitioners of medicine, who have deplored its unsatisfac tory, uncertain, unscientific, and unprogressive tendency, have given terrible testimony against it. Sir John Forbes, late physician extra ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen , and the distinguished editor of the British and Foreign MedicalReview, says, “ things ( the state of medicine) have come to such a pitch, that they must either mend or end.” M. Magendie, the celebrated French physician, says, “ in short a com plete revolution awaits the medical profession. ” “ The science of medicine is founded on conjecture, and improved by murder . " - Sir Astley Cooper. Wewould recommend the advocates of Vaccination to be wise, and to be wise in time, for they may depend upon it that Vaccination will yet take rank among the wildest delusions, the darkest errors that ever escaped from the diseased brain of fool, enthusiast, or madman, con ceived in a moment of madness, and followed with miraculous blindness by all who adopted it ; and to have such a delusion protected and made compulsory bythe State, is the crowning scandal of all. It out- Herod's Herod. An Act, which for its monstrosity, wickedness, and barbarism, stands alone, unprecedented and unparalleled in the annals of history. Compulsory Vaccination is one of those blunders that will remain to the eternal disgrace of those who introduced and enforced it . It will remain a wonder to coming generations and to all time, how a people, a profession, and a government, who were the victims of such a delusion as this, could boast of their progress, civilization , science, and liberty. We have only been able to give but a very faint conception of the evils of Vaccination, of the amount of corruption and disease now flowing in our veins from this source that previously had no place there. The blood of the people is saturated with scrofulous tubercular * and con * Dr. Dougan Bird, speaking of blood diseases, says, “ The blood of the whole British population is saturated with scrofulous and tubercular diseases, which are more destructive to the youth and flower of the European races than ever were the cholera, plague, or the most bloody wars of Napoleon .” - See Review of Work, in the Lancet of March 5, 1864. The Medical Timcs and Gazette for Jan: 1, 1854, also informs us that consumption has widely spread since the introduction of Vaccination , and within ten years (ending 1853) had slain its 68,204 victims in the metropolis alone. Professor Bartlett (lecturer on the theory and practice of medicine, in the University of New York) remarks, " In 208 children who had been vaccinated, 138 died of tubercular consumption, and 70 of other maladies. It has been estimated that about 34 per cent die from the fatal nature of the vaccine virus ( Vaccination ), and that a far greater number are more or less constitu tionally injured for life . The general mortality increases in spite of all our sanitary improvements and greater scientific knowledge. But when we look at our infantile mortality, one half of those born dying under five years of age, then the fruits of Vaccination more especially begin to appear. We may also append the fact that nearly all remarkable cases of longevity are of persons that never were vaccinated. 20 sumptive disease. We have seen that Vaccination is a pure unmitigated evil ; that its consequences are, and must ever be, evil; nothing that is good can flow from it, because there is nothing good in it ; its essence being corruption, rottenness, disease, and that only. The evil it pro duces is rapidly increasing and multiplying as it goes on ; its effects are transmitted from parent to child, and receiving fresh accessions with every child, with every generation ever more fuel to increase its de structive flames ; it adds to and mixes with human diseases, the dis eases of beasts, gathering up also the human diseases of the bodies through which it has passed - consumption, leprosy, cutaneous diseases, syphilis, cancer, erysipelas, & c.; and now it exists as one grand medium for the diffusion and transmission of human as well as beastly diseases in their most virulent, combined , and fatal character. Some of its con sequences are truly terrible to behold ; some, before death comes to their deliverance, appear but one mass of rottenness and disease, the Divine image blotted out, exciting in all the deepest feelings of pity and sadness. We have seen and attended cases of children literally rotting alive, even the very bones rotten and wasting away, and whose mothers gave the usual testimony, almost daily sounding in our ears, that the child was well and not a spot upon it before it was vaccinated, and both its parents free from anything of the kind. What the ultimate consequences of Vaccination will be if continued are indeed dark, fathomless, unknown. We shrink back from their con templation. The decline and fall of England may be an event com paratively near at hand. Is there none to arrest the progress of this Juggernaut as it rolls along, crushing its victims to death? Is there no Iconoclast to destroy this Molock, to whom mothers sacrifice their Children ? Is their cup not yet full ? Is it not yet time to stop this stream of contagion, disease, and death, before it entirely overwhelms us -- before the glory and the strength of England passes completely away - before corruption, disease, and death reign triumphant over all ? Yes,, it can, will, and must be stayed. The world moves, time is flying, science is progressing, man is awakening to aecomplish this work ; nations are preparing, anxious mothers are but waiting, many are sighing, innocence is suffering, vic tims are dying, hearts are bleeding to accomplish this work. We, as a body of England's Medical Reformers and Anti-Vaccinators, have set our hands to this work, from which we shall not rest nor desist till we see this Compulsory Law of Vaccination Repealed-till we see this unclean idol or image of the beast brought down to rise no more ; its corruption and ghastliness buried deep in the dust, that it may no more poison and pollute this fair earth -- efface the divine image from man , placing on him the mark of the beast, and marring the beauty, the purity, and the perfection of the CREATOR'S WORKS. G. MEYERS, STEAM PRINTER, H.İWLEY CRESCENT, KENTISH TOWN ROAD , N.W. В