THE VACCINATION COMMITTEE, 1871. REPRINTED FROM THE COSMOPOLITAN. The Sanitary“ General Board of Health” having been abolished in 1854, and a do -nothing Board appointed, to which, in 1855,a Medical Officer was added, this Officer was by the Public Health Act, 1858 , transferred to the Privy Council, at£1,500a year; and there being no duties to show for the money, Mr. John Simon, the appointee, succeeded in persuading the several Vice-Presidents of the Council in succession (as he had previously persuaded his friend and patron Sir B. HALL), that it was highly desirable he should take the question of Vaccination in hand. Accordingly, Sir C. B. ADDERLEY, Mr. Lowe, Mr. BRUCE , and Lord ROBERT MONTAGU were, from time to time, induced to pass measures, after midnight and without discussion( all adverse petitions having been practically suppressed by Petitions Committees, chiefly composed of these gentlemen themselves), by which the possession of a healthy child was made illegal, parents were deprived of the natural right of protecting their offspring, and subjected to perpetual fines and imprisonment in case they abstain from inflicting on helpless babes the risk of foul disease and premature death . That such an outrageous invasion of liberty and conscience could long be tolerated in a free country was impossible. An " Anti - Compulsory Vaccination League” was formed soon after ; and Mr. CANDLISH ,, in 1870, brought in aa bill to ameliorate this inhuman law, when the Home Secretary, Mr. BRUCE, got the matter deferred by promising a Parliamentary Committee of inquiry. Before appointing such Committee, Mr. Forster, then Vice-president of the Council, declared in the House that such would not have been proposed, if it were thought possible that any doubt could thereby be cast upon the great value of Vaccination as a prophylactic against  smallpox . The Committee selected consisted of the Vice - President himself ; the ex- Vice- President, Lord ROBERT MONTAGUE, who carried the most stringent Act of 1867 ; one other official ;; another ex-official; and three medical members — these seven being as strongly biased as interested judges could be—in addition to six others of well-known Vaccinating propensities, besides Mr. CANDLISH, in favour of one full or two half penalties and costs as the price of a good conscience ; and, lastly Mr. Jacob Bright, doubtful as to the efficacy of Vaccination, the single element of fair play against the field . Mr. LEATHAM intimated his willingness to serve, but, not being sufficiently orthodox in his opinions, was excluded. Mr. BARROW, an opponent of the practice, of course was not invited , neither was any other waverer, whilst Mr. Briscoe , Mr. T. DUNCOMBE, and Dr. MITCHELL, all in their time strenuous opponents of Vaccination altogether, were dead. Before the Committee met, a petition was entrusted to Mr. ALDERMAN CARTER, for presentation to the House, praying that the League might appear by Counsel: This petition, how ever, instead of being presented, was carried by him to the Committee, and the Chairman replied to Mr. BAKER, the Barrister who made the application , that they could not hear Counsel without the leave of the House, and they did not deem it expedient to apply for such leave . Forty witnesses were offered by Mr. R. B. GIBBS, the Honorary Secretary of the League, out of hundreds ready to come forward. Ten only were allowed to give their evidence, and these were duly brow beaten in approved nisi - prius style by the opposing judges acting as Counsel --having no one on their own side to protect them -- so that whilst particulars of nearly fifty cases of injury or death , attested by parents before Magistrates, entrusted to a Clergyman for the purposes of this inquiry, were rejected on the technical ground that he had no personal knowledge of the parties, --- Mr. Simon , the principal witness on the other side, was allowed to offer hearsay statements of letters written from abroad to others in this country. A memorial signed by three Aldermen and eight Town Councillors of Leeds, praying that Mr. PICKERING, one of their number, might be examined, he being a well - known authority upon the question , was refused . A girl of fifteen , who had been taken unawares by her master to be re- Vaccinated, and, in consequence, had lost the use of her arm, completely paralysed, tendered herself for examination in the room , but was rejected by the chairman , the case on that side being " closed." No foreign physicians were summoned, no known opponents to Vaccination in this country invited, on this so - called full and fair inquiry !Io has Go to To support the odious principle of compulsion, the chief witnesses were 1. Mr. SIMON ,who, in consequence of the panic he had raised , has received, at the hands of Mr. Lowe, an additional £500a year to the salary limited by the Act of 1858, without its having been repealed ; who has raised the old customary vote of £2,300 for the State encouragement of Vaccination to £ 27,000 for the Central Department, besides having the patronage of 3,500 Public Vaccinators paid at least £100,000 out of the rates ; who calls all opponents of Vaccination ( one Medical witness having sacrificed £ 500 a year to his conscience, and two other practitioners lost many hundreds) “ interested,” “ dishonest,” " quacks,”” or “ idiots;" who, in 1857 reports the Navy as specially well protected by the regulations — but, in 1871 , in clumsily accounting for the “ Octavia ”  smallpox  outbreak, repudiates all knowledge of the Naval Vaccination Regulations ; and who, on April 21, cites as an authority that Syphilis can only, by the remotest possibility , be transmitted by Vaccination , -- Mr. Hutch INSON — who, called subsequently by accident, proves that on the 4th April he had eleven such cases of transmission from one child , brought to his notice by the Privy Council Vaccination Inspector ! 2. Dr. Seaton, who, with Mr. Marson, and Mr. GRAINGER ( now deceased), was one of the chief advisers of Lord LYTTELTON, the introducer of the first Compulsory Bill in 1853, though it was brought in, as Dr. Seaton states, " without the knowledge of the Epidemiological Society," the Vaccination Committee of whom he was Honorary Secretary; who has been , as a consequence , many years Vaccination Inspector, at a handsome salary ; and who exonerates Mr. SIMON for his alleged or presumed ignorance of Mr. HUTCHINSON'S cases of Syphilitic Transmission , by saying “ it occurred after wards, ” -- i.e., the 4th April after the 21st ! 3. Mr. Marson, who, to support the prestige of a long professional practice, contradicts himself, and other witnesses on his own side, at every turn ! 4. The Court Physicians, who acknowledge a want of all knowledge of the statistics, British and foreign ; proclaim themselves of no authority ' (referring to Mr.Marson and Dr. SEATON as the authorities ); give evidence that Sir CULLING EARDLEY died of pyæmia caused by re-Vaccination ; and that they had advised Her MAJESTY and the PRINCE of Wales to submit themselves to a similar ordeal ! The result of this mock inquiry have been that such few Members of the Committee who were in any manner open to conviction, were thereby convinced that Compulsory Vaccination is a wrong which calls loudly for a remedy ; and that the report of the Committee, drawn up by Mr. SIMON and Dr. SEATON ! (s0 stated on the authority of a Member of the Committee ), has induced Parliament to pass another Compulsory Vaccination Act!!! N.B. - A Digest of the Evidence taken by this Committee ( price 6d. ) is sold by Shaws, Fetter Lane, E.C. 