A protest AGAINST COMPULSORY VACCINATION; BY A Sufferer, THIS LETTER Was addressed to the Officer appointed to enforce the COMPULSORY VACCINATION ACT; Sir, : Having been informed, on good legal authority, that the fine, in case of persistence in acting like an intelligent and responsible being, is cumulative, I have decided upon obeying the idiotic law, which compels me to, almost certainly, afflict my child with some hideous disease. One guinea would readily pay to save him ; but my means will not permit me to so expend an unlimited number of guineas. But I will not quietly submit to this beastly, abominable and absurd tyranny, without raising my humble protest against the infamous system: and, while I know you are but the helpless instrument in the hands of idiotic tyrants; and have, doubtless, as great a contempt for the practice as I have ; and while I, also, think it probable that this communication will proceed no farther than your wastepaper basket, I feel bound to give a reason for my opposition. It requires no medical nor pathological knowledge, nay, it needs but one spark of common sense, puffed into active flame by unbiased reflection, to see that, if vaccination will convey one disease from the blood of one person to the blood of another, ( which is the desired effect of vaccination,) it Must, also, convey any OTHER disease that may exist in the veins of the former. And, while learned physicians, who have, all their lives, ( Remember THIS!) practised and upheld vaccination, deny that it does communicate other diseases; they do not attempt to explain WhY those other diseases are not so conveyed. As well might one deny that wine would pass through a pipe made to convey water. But, while theory is, as is evident, perfectly conclusive in condemnation of vaccination, practice comes to prove the marvellous correctness & A PROTEST AGAINST of that theory, We have, of late, read of innumerable instances of children having become afflicted with the most loathsome diseases,- immediately after, and clearly consequent upon, vaccination ; while Z have, #2 My own family, a striking illustration of the beastliness and folly of the practice. ; Neither have I, nor has my wife, nor an remembered ancestor, or relation, in either family, ever been subject to any kind of, (even the mildest,) eruption on the skin: while the eìild, of whom I am about to speak, never, previous to vaccination, exhibited the slightest tendency to such eruption ; 'and was one of the strongest and healthiest children to be met with in a day’s march. Yet immediately after vaccination, by a most experienced and careful private operator, and from a most healthy and hearty-looking and most respectably connected infant, my child was covered, from head to foot, with a most disgusting and irritating eruption: which eruption (now, happily, greatly subdued,) has reappeared, from time to time, under slightly different forms, from that time (8 years ago!) to this day; causing the poor child an amount of torture, by both day and zig/é, that I should utterly fail to make you comprehend, or believe, by description. After spending a great deal of money, n the vain endeavour to cure the child, or alleviate her sufferings, I took her to our most celebrated of skin-disease doctors, DR, STARTIN: and I put the question to him, whether the disease might not lave been caused by vaccination? He beat-about the bush for a long time; but, being closely pressed by me, he, at length, said, “ Well, certainly, #2 347G AHT have been so caused. But we must not say anything against VACCINATION. a “vaccination. It is a very fine institution.” : Now, if the opinion of this great authority be of any value in the argument, there is a complete justification for my opposition to, and condemnation of, the pernicious practice. Yose, tien, that, while not even the most yvo'cnens advocates of the idiotic scheme will uadersa'ro to slow how it is that vaccination will com:nunJeate on” disease of the blood, and not communicate another, one of the greatest authorities on such matters, and an ardent admirer of vaccination to boot, admits that such a practice zro% communicate OTHER loathsome diseases from one person to another. Statistics would seem to prove the beneficial results of vaccination as jar as smallpox is concerned : yet even these, eus 03th ways. But 1 have seen so much humbug and falsehood in statistics, that Fam by no means disposed to admit the correctness of those concerning this matter. But, taking those statistics as correct, what do they show us? Why, that, after 70 years of Jennering, we are suffering from’ an epidemic smallpox! Thus, Vaccination first stays the progress of the disease, and, then, allows it to spread! ‘Ah !but,” say the Jennerites, “ the “ cause of the outbreak, zow, is the neglect of vaccination OF IATE” Pray where is the proof of this? The Statistics do not affirm, nor indicate this. The tale told us is, that, at first, the common, ignorant, people had a sort of superstitious aversion to the practice; and endeavoured to avoid subjecting themselves to it: but that, gradually, that aversion gave way to a feeling of confidence in it, and a desire to avail themselves of its benefits. Par parenthesis, how often we find the untutored ( unbiased would he the better word,) minds of fŻe mass of the people leading them to just conclusions ; while their ‘ betters ” are revelling in a fool’s paradise of conceit and folly ! Now, there is no proof, either statistical or otherwise, that these ignorant people have sunk into indifference on the subject; nor is there any evidence of their having, as a rule, an aversion to, the abominable practice. Indeed we usually find that they hold fast to any practice, be it good or bad, to which they have become accustomed. No; the opposers of the madness have been men of education and ability : many of them being medical men. A SURGEON of standing, in Bloomsbury, was fined, the other day, for refusing to have this child vaccinated!!! And, now, let me suggest an explanation. Say the Jennerites, before vaccination was discovered smallpox was very prevalent, and generally fatal ; while, since the grand discovery, and up to éŻe present time, ( Ah! There’s the rub!) the world has been almost free from the horrid disease: while the few cases that have occurred have been very mild, and easily cured. First, then, let me ask if OTHER diseases ( of an epidemic character, ) were : equally prevalent, and equally fatal? I think n0 one will dare to deny that such was the case. Well, then, may not t/e great progress made in medical science, ( of which we, with justice, boast,) and the “ vast improvements ” effected in all our sanitary arrangements (a great element in such diseases as smallpox, ) for which we have paid, and are still paying, so much money ; may not f/Żese smallpox? >. “Ah!” -says Jenner, “But how do you “account for the present outbreak, then?” I "VACCINATION, 5 to create a vicious state of the blood; and to occasion a huddling together of poor, dirty, un. healthy people; and, as;suce a state of things is certain to produce epidemics of a more or less fatal and extensive character ; and, also, as, while 1 freely admit that we have arrived at an unparalleled -pitch of grandeur, wealth and prosperity, 1 am painfully conscious of the fact, that the great majority of the people are in a deplorable state of poverty and semi-starvation; and are huddled together in filthy holes such as no effort on their parts, even had țhey the desire, could make fit for a hog to live in; the present epidemic may surely be attributed to that poverty as a cause. And let me just Zint at the possibility of Vaccination having created and fostered many of those new and horrible skin, and other, diseases, with which mankind is now afflicted; and which, if properly weighed and reckoned, would be found, in their aggregate, to Jar erceed, in misery and fatality, the much (and justly ) dreaded smallpox. A deal of misapprehension and conclusion arises from the fact of (as in my case,) horrible results proceeding from vaccination of the best kind: %e,, by an experienced and careful operator, and from a healthy-looking, and respectably connected child. Now, we are told ( whether with truth, ọr not I will not pretend to say,) that a serious disease will, frequently, lie dormant in a family for several generations, and then break out again. Now, if this be the case, is there any absurdity in supposing that the great-great-grandfather of the before-mentioned healthy-looking infant, from whom the matter ( or poison,-) was taken, was afflicted; with this horrible skin disease from which the unfortunate victim of a “ Collective Wisdom” has suffered such tortures for so many years! And, by the same reasoning, may we not assume that such diseases, and worse, are daily conveyed, by vaccination, from healthy children having had diseased ancestors, to other healthy children, who, had they not been vaccinated, might have caught the smallpox, ( which ordinary care and a strong dose of Castor-Oil, taken n would prevent,) but who would have been saved from a life of misery and shame. We are told ( only J do not believe all I am told,) that insanity is hereditary; that it is 77 the blood! Now, the statistics inform us, very positively, that insanity has increased of late years ( since Jennering came into fashion,) to an alarming extent; far out of proportion to the increase of population. May not; then, vaccination account somewhat for this shocking cvil; an evil even greater than smallpox itself? Only 7 think that misery, anxiety, the constant desire to make a “princely” fortune, (as others have done, ) and the equally constant fear of inhabiting that abode of bliss, that haven of refuge, the Workhouse, Which so universally prevails, may be increase. T need say no more to any reasonable and unbiased person : and having, already, written more than will be read, I will now conclude by expressing a hope. that you may live to see the great Jenner burned in effigy : though it would be far more just and reasonable to execrate the memory of that “noblest assembly of, free “men,” who gave him £30.000 out of the pockets of ą starving people for having spread about disease and misery. I am, Sir, , Yours obediently, T ONE of the Sufferers by VACCINATION; February 26th, 1871. E. STANDARD, 6.4.71, p.1, c.6. a well-known Surgeon, of fifty-five ye practice, having been solicited by a former patient to vaccinate her third child the others ha ng beef so injured by the operation proceeds to the most respectable vaccine establishment - from which hundreds of other doctors were taking the ichor [p n] freely - with this result. << There were about 40 or 5o children from whom I was politely invited to make my selection.: but hot seeing A SINGLE CASE that I approved, 1 went again the following week, when, out of a somewhat larger number of children, I was able to select only TWO’! EXTRACT from a Letter from the VACCINATOR-GENERAL for the Colony of Trinidad, ‘1t is thus OLEAR that NO SAVING OF LIFE has been effected by Compulsor: Vaccination, and that the deaths from smallpox have only been transferred to OTHER DISEASES.’ IN A PAMPHLET written by a well-known Homoeopathist it is asserted that one celebrated doctor is making sixty guineas per week by Vaccination alone. No wonder Doctors see no harm in Vaccination! j THE GREAT JENNER'’S attention, say his biographers, was directed to vaccination by observing that milkmaids were singularly exempt from smallpox: the poor, stupid man being totally unable to understand the marvellous benefits invariably derived from plain living, on wholesome food, early-rising and pfe ait. 