ཨ་ཞིག་མཁས་SMALL -POX eks AND VACCINATION BY JAMES JOHN GARTH WILKINSON. LONDON : F. PITMAN , 20, PATERNOSTER ROW , E.C. GLASGOW : JOHN THOMPSON, 39, JOHN STREET. 1871. >     smallpox  AND VACCINATION. I. THE TREATMENT OF SMALL -POX BY HYDRAS TIS CANADENSIS AND VERATRUM VIRIDE. In 1864 I published a little Work “ On the Cure, Arrest, and Isolation of smallpox by a New Method ,” * and on Feb. 4 , 1865, the Morning Star was good enough to insert in its columns an epitome of the plan of treatment. That epitome I now re -publish, in view of the present Epidemic. Since that period I have had occasional cases of Small рох in my neighbourhood, and have treated them by this method with rapid and unvarying success . Others have used the same means, and with the same results . One clergyman wrote to me about 1866 that he had just treated thirty cases by my directions, many of them severe cases, without one casualty, and with the most gratifying rapidity of On several occasions, fathers and husbands have cure . applied to me for my prescriptions; and then , single -handed, with no personal medical attendance, have carried their patients quickly, pleasantly, and safely, through the ordeal. I have had nothing but confirmations of my method. Excepting that one scientific doctor, really eminent in chemical and hypodermic practices, averred that the alleged action of my remedies was “ of course all nonsense :” of course, meaning that he had not tried the remedies . With this deduction, I have better reason to be assured * Published by Leath & Ross, 9, Vere Street, Oxford Street, W.     1 SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . of the extraordinary benignity of the method than I had in 1864. It has proved to me that smallpox is a tractable disease ; tractable, I believe, in the great majority of bad cases in even the poorest neighbourhoods ; possibly even where re -vaccination has re-poisoned the system . And hence I see in this method a popular safeguard against the panic which, through Vaccination and the constant pleading to have it done on families, the medical Profession incessantly foments in the community. Which panic , which fright, is a mental forerunner of cases of smallpox ; the Uhlan which takes a neighbourhood in its name. Any good nurse can apply this method without medical assistance. Municipalities, and Boards of Guardians, can , by printed directions, and personal instructions, speedily have nurses educated to the management of all the  smallpox  cases in the parish. Inasmuch as the hydrastis kills and seals the disease, there is no need to remove the patients from their abodes, but only to take in beds, and nursing comforts, and to provide cleanliness. By this advantage, medical infection , that great source of epidemics, -- the carrying about of contagions on the persons of medical men , -may be prevented so far as  smallpox  is concerned . It can be isolated, because the doctors need not come near it . This is a good result for us ; and will make us more com fortable in our consciences, when we know that we are not stealthily outraging the wishes of families, by coming to them from the bed of  smallpox  patients : for mothers often, we are well aware, if they knew where we had last a been , would as soon let a tiger inside the door as a family doctor. The chemists and druggists of a neighbourhood, of whom the drugs will be bought, will be the obvious rank and file of instructors about their administration. My method in short gives over even the worst cases of  smallpox  to the agency and sphere of educated domestic medicine.     SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . Mothers' statistics will arise out of this campaign. And we shall see whether the domestic statistic , or the old professional statistic, has the better look in the long run . To facilitate which, nurses , under a head nurse, should be allowed to sign certificates of death, but always subject to enquiry, as medical certificates at present are, but not at the instigation of interested medical men . There is no more presumption that a child has died of mal-practice under an educated nurse, than under the greatest M.D. in the land. I merely hint the plan, but the details, of the medical referee, one for a neighbourhood ; of the instructed chemists and druggists, of the head nurse, and the organi zation of nurses, are for the consideration of parishes. The point is , to localize the disease , and to disband the hospitals, those new factories of smallpox, which at present raise the yellow flag over the best suburbs of our city. I now give the memoir, with some few alterations, of which the recommendation of the Sulphite of Soda is especially urged upon the reader's attention :: TO THE EDITOR OF THE MORNING STAR.” " Sir , -- I see by the letter of your Dublin correspondent, dated last Tuesday, that smallpox is greatly on the increase in Ireland , and that Dr. Corrigan, who stands at the 6 head of the medical profession in that country ,' deplores the insufficiency of the treatment of the 30 per cent. of . deaths, and the fact that after  smallpox  ' the blood is poisoned, scrofula is generated, consumption follows, and an amazing number of cases of blindness are the result of the pustulation . He also fears the invasion of the disease on a greater epidemic scale. “ Now , I have a method which I am confident will largely avert these consequences ; a method of the easiest local and general treatment ; a method belonging to no school of medicine, but simply to experience .    6  smallpox  AND VACCINATION. “ Last autumn I drew up a paper embodying my practical discoveries, and presented it, through the president, to the physiological sub - section of the British Association meeting at Bath ; but the paper was not read, because it was ' too medical . ' “ This paper I now send to you, hoping that it is Medical or Healing enough, and has sufficient human interest, to gain insertion in the Star. Should this be achieved, I earnestly hope that medical men , and the public, will copy my formulas, and try them. “ Let me add that Keith's preparations may be had of the best homeopathic chemists. “ I conclude by remarking that if my discovery be true it is the most complete answer to Dr. Corrigan's wants that even he can desire. J. J. GARTH WILKINSON." 76, Wimpole Street, Jan, 30, 1865 . “ The hydrastis Canadensis is a drug which has been employed in the treatment of various diseases, both in local and internal administration, and the object of the present paper is to record the power which it exerts over  smallpox , in modifying the disease, abolishing its distressing symptoms, shortening its course, lessening its danger, and greatly mitigating its consequences . “ Four cases treated by myself with the hydrastis have yielded one constant result . Of these cases two were moderately severe distinct smallpox; the third was a case of severe confluent Small -pox with ardent fever, and great local swelling of the head, face, and neck ; the fourth case was typhoid , the eruption slow in development, petechial from the first, and rising from a ground of the worst description of measles ; and it became uninterruptedly con fuent over the head and face, and over nearly the entire body 1 and limbs. The patient was a very delicate girl , labouring     smallPOX AND VACCINATION, 7 under menorrhagia during thegreater portion of the attack ; and the laryngeal, tracheal, and bronchial symptoms proved that the eruption invaded the internal mucous membranes throughout a large portion of their extent. Thus, though my number of cases was limited, their 66 range of symptoms was considerable. In short, they covered something like the whole ground of smallpox, and in them all the success was so decisive, so prompt, and so grateful to the patients , that I look to a repetition of the same success wherever the same means are properly applied to the disease . “ For a statement of my cases, their symptoms, dura tion , and treatment from day to day, and the consequences of that treatment, I beg to refer to a pamphlet— ' On the I Cure, Arrest, and Isolation of Small -pox by a New Method ' --- published by me during the present year. But this treatment in detail I endeavour to make known for the first time through the medium of the British Association . " The alleged results are so extraordinary that it is a satisfaction to know that they can be at once proved or disproved in the smallpox hospitals, and by medical prac titioners all over the country. They need not, therefore, rest on my personal testimony., Considering the nature of the disease, and the simple and easy means I have dis covered of treating it, is it not a duty that I should make it known to you as the highest and widest tribunal of medical discovery in the British dominions ? “ Hitherto I have mentioned the hydrastis Canadensis alone; but there is another drug of which I have made equal use in my combat with smallpox : I mean the veratrum viride. The sphere of its action is not, however, peculiar to smallpox, but extends also to erysipelatous inflammations generally ; and indeed, in the hands of the discriminating practitioner, to the whole circle of conges    S SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . tions and inflammations. Like the hydrastis, I employ it also locally as well as internally. “ I need hardly observe that complications will arise which require their own treatment in this as in other dis cases ; it is, however, with the great features of  smallpox  that I now propose to indicate my method . “ And first for the drugs themselves. I employ the concentrated tinctures of hydrastis Canadensis and veratrum viride as follows : -- Mix together a large teaspoonful of each in a tumbler of water for local application, and as soon as . a the disease appears on the skin , dab the affected surface frequently with the lotion . For this purpose a little of it may be warmed in a cup placed in hot water, in order that it may not chill the patient. Let it dry on the skin, only sponging it off occasionally to prevent stiffness and discom fort. As the eruption develops, the sponging may be more frequent, and if the inflammation be intense, double the quantity of veratrum viride may be employed, though I have obtained all my results with the single teaspoonful to the tumbler. The veratrum viride is, however, com paratively harmless when locally applied, and produces no injurious consequences to the sound skin , even when painted on it in the form of concentrated tincture . When the swelling is considerable, as in the first few days of confluent smallpox, single linen rags are to be wet in the warmed lotion and kept applied continually to the parts --- e. g. , over the whole head and scalp, face and neck ,-- the rags being skilfully covered in with gutta percha tissue, so as to keep the inflamed surfaces in a vapour bath of the com bined drugs . Finally, if the general strength will bear it , and the means are efficiently at hand, a complete bath at 96º once or twice in twenty-four hours, medicated with two teaspoonsful of each of the concentrated tinctures, and exhibited from three to ten minutes at a time according to the effect, will, I believe, be an active and agreeable means   SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION. of keeping up and extending the curative medicinal actions. This bath , however, I have not yet tried in smallpox, but I hope to do so in future, in conjunction with free use of stimulants, which play an important part in the present mode of treatment. " As the infiammation of the skin and the primary fever subside (which they do in from twelve to thirty -six hours under the treatment in question ), the veratrum viride is omitted from the lotion, and only the hydrastis Canadensis applied ; and this, continuously every liour or two so long as the pustules are developing. If the inflamma tion occurs again, the veratrum viride is again made and ingredient of the tumbler. “ If there be cases in which the veratrum viride docs. not abolish the erysipelatous swelling that surrounds the cruption, after eighteen hours 'trial , and before the pustules have broken, --mix a dessert spoonful of coarsely -powdered. sulphite of soda with a pint of water, and apply this as a lotion instead . It is a marvellous remedy locally applied in erysipelas ; especially wherever great exhaustion and collapse are present. It should not however be applied on the face after the pustules break, excepting very cautiously and tentatively. Try it in the worst cases . “ This is the sum and substance of my local treatment of smallpox, and it is applicable all through the disease, including also the secondary fever ; but which, indeed, can hardly be said to exist under these ministrations. “ The preparations I use are the concentrated tinctures of hydrastis Canadensis and veratrum viride, prepared by Keith and Co. , of New York , and the fluid essences of the same drugs prepared by Tilden and Co. , of the same city In order to put my method to the proof, medical prac titioners should be careful to be supplied with these preparations, and not with their English substitutes . A 10 smallPOX AND VACCINATION. good tincture of V.V. is made in London ; but my results were not obtained with it . “ The hydrastis, lowever, can be applied in various ways : either in the cold infusion ( a tablespoonful of the powdered root stirred in a tumbler of water, and the clear liquor employed as above) ; or, what is a convenient method where the pustulation and moisture are considerable , by dredging the surface with the powder itself. The latter application may sometimes be usefully alternated with that of the concentrated tincture, the change for the time being grateful to the skin . “ So much for the external applications-- for what we may call the general local treatment. The internal treat ment is pursued with the same remedies. As soon as the disease is suspected, twenty drops of the concentrated tincture of hydrastis are mixed with twenty dessert-spoons ful of water ; and a dessert-spoonful is administered every four hours ; and as the disease develops itself the same dose is given every two or three hours, according to the severity of the symptoms. When the fever and erysipelatous swelling of the skin accede, add to the above mixture thirty drops of the concentrated tincture of veratrum viride, and administer the combination at the intervals mentioned above. Let the effect be watched, and if faintness or prostration, very slow pulse, with nausea and great perspiration are produced by the veratrum viride, the use of that ingredient must be suspended for a time. Where putrescence is a marked type, and also where the pustulation is greatly developed in the mouth and on the fauces, the concentrated tincture of baptisia tinctoria (Keith’s) is very serviceable, and may be given in combination with the hydrastis in doses of from three to five drops, mixed with each dose of the latter. Towards the conclusion of the disease, where a tonic a is needed, the hydrastin, an extract or alkaloid ” of the C hydrastis, may be given every four hours in doses of from  SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION. 11 a quarter to half a grain , dissolved in a tablespoonful of water. With these simple medicinal means I have obtained results unparalleled in the treatment of smallpox. “ The dietetic treatment is modified by the fact that the hydrastis, from the first dose and the first application , is extinguishing the varioloid poison, and that the veratrum viride, with even greater promptness, is rendering the skin tissues and the cellular tissues incombustible, and is de stroying the inflammation , and the capacity of the system for inflammation. In consequence of these attainments, the danger of internal complications - bronchitis, pneumonia, cerebral and abdominal fever -inflammations, or decomposi tions of tissue-is so far lessened , that a chief aim of the prac titioner is directed to sustaining nature under the shock of the disease - in short, to gaining time for convalesence by judicious diet. This should be such as is appropriate in cases of erysipelas, of severe boils, carbuncle, snake bites, and other maladies attended with nervous prostration from vitiation or poisoning of the blood. Among these means, alcohol and water--brandy and water (save in the crisis of ardent fever, when veratrum viride has the first part to play) —is of the chiefest importance, and should be gradu ally and experimentally administered . The Hungarian wine, Carlowitz, or Claret, one part in two or three of water, is an agreeable and refreshing diluent, and an excellent roborant for the blood ; and later on, when the hydrastin is wanted, port wine may be given, if a greater hody of blood nutriment is required. Good becf tea should also be supplied according to the digestive power. Fruit is the best solid to commence with . In short, a liberal stimu lant and fluid - nutrient diet is to be pressed against the prostration of the disease throughout, the cup to be drawn back whenever nature says ' Hold ! ' by any sign of gastric or general distress, and to be proffered again as soon as such 12 SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . symptoms have abated . In the worst cases, pure rum, whisky, or brandy should be given ad libitum to keep the patients alive, as is done in snake bites. “ There is, I am aware, nothing new in this dietary, yet it is important to remark that the hydrastis and veratrum viride render its application at an early stage of the disease, and indeed throughout, more safe and feasible than it would be under the old treatment. “ The success at present attained may be collected under the following heads : “ 1. The disease has been abridged in duration . ( In my first severe confluent case , to which also I was not called until the face and neck were one continuous pustule, and the head swollen hugely, the symptoms were over in a week, and on the eleventh day from my first visit the mask of scab had all separated , and my patient was out in Ken sington Gardens.) * 2. The inflammation and primary fever are certainly and speedily subdued . " 3. The pustulation is arrested, and the secondary fever is annulled. “ 4. There is no itching of the pustules, and the patient has no motive to pick the face. “ 5. There is scarcely any pitting, and , à fortiori, there is no seaming, even where the face has been one bag of matter : although in such cases the complexion is roughened for a time. “ 6. The stench of the old disease has no place . “ 7. The suffering is reduced to a minimum . " Owing to the antiphlogistic exactitude of the veratrum viride, and the specific power of the hydrastis, stimulants and nourishment are required and borne from the first. “ These statements are astounding, but a careful, brief trial will prove their truth . “ It remains to notice that in but one of my cases has infection been communicated in the houses ; and this SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION. 13 circumstance ( upon which I might dwell if time permitted ), coupled with the complete destruction of the stench of the disease, leads me to infer that the hydrastis not only kills the poison in and on the system, but neutralises, encases , and isolates the detached and detaching poison -particles, and renders them inert and non-contagious, thus separating the sick from the sound by an impregnable film of quarantine. “ The same circumstances lead to the further inference that the hydrastis administered internally and applied ex ternally to the healthy in infected houses and districts, is prophylactic against the attack of the disease. For whether the sound person is fortified and encased , or the disease imprisoned, amounts to the same thing. I have therefore administered drop doses of the tincture of hydrastis n . 6 twice a day in a tablespoonful of water where the contagion is feared ; and the safety may be completed by a teaspoon ful of hydrastis tincture in a cold or tepid sponging bath night and morning. A pilule of hydrastis n . 6 night and morning may be given to the children . These means are of easy application ; and, if my reasons be correct, they will tend to seal the population against the spread of the disease. Lastly. The shortening of the disease , which I have undoubtedly effected , gives good hope of the greater result of its extinction ; and as this object has not before been attempted, the attempt is a new position , and may be crowned with success . Hitherto a conscientious dread has . prevailed of suppressing the disease, though the record of suppression by medical agency has not come under my notice. Suppression were indeed fatal, but extinction is cure. There is no better reason why Small - pox should run its course than why erysipelas should run its course , or carbuncle. It is a disease which engenders itself in its progress, and consequently its extinction at the commence  14 smallPOX AND VACCINATION. ment is the object to be attained . As erysipelas in formidable cases can be extinguished in a few hours by lotions of veratrum viride, [and also with surprising rapidity by lotions of SULPHITE OF Soda, ] so probably can smallpox by the veratrum viride and hydrastis combined , if promptly and energetically applied at the outset. This now remains to be essayed. To this, all efforts should be bent ; and I am not without confident hope that in the simple means which I have brought before your honourable Section there lies the power of so great a result . ” II . REASONS AGAINST VACCINATION . VACCINATION is no protection against  smallpox  : 80 per cent . of the patients admitted with smallpox into the London Small -pox Hospital, and 95 per cent. of the patients admitted with smallpox into the Paris hospitals, are reported vaccinated. Of 227 persons dead of  smallpox  last week, 86 are returned as vaccinated ; and 20 doubtful. “ The Registrar -General tells us that on an average of four years, only 65 per cent. of the English people were vaccinated ; that is , less than two-thirds. The vaccinated two-thirds furnish four- fifths of the smallpox cases, whilst the unvaccinated one- third furnish only one fifth. That is , the vaccinated are twice as liable to smallpox as the unvaccinated . " * It is mere assumption that re - vaccination protects against  smallpox  ; the re - vaccinated take smallpox, and you cannot assert of a re-vaccinated person who has been free from smallpox, that he would have had it but for re- vaccination . You know nothing about that. In all ages the vast majority of mankind have not taken smallpox ; in this age an increasing majority does not take it. The contagiousness of smallpox is one thing ; the mortality of it is another. If Vaccination cannot be asserted to lessen the contagiousness, and if re-vaccination cannot, at least, so the statistics inform us, Vaccination * A similar result is presented in France. See Report by the Imperial Academy of Medicine respecting Vaccinations in France in 1867. Trans lated and abridged with the Arithmetical Proportions of the Statistics calculated and arranged by GEORGE S. GIBBS. Longmans, 1870. Wherever Vaccination was most common, Small -pox was most rife.  16 SJIALI - POS AND VACCINATION . and re - vaccination diminish the death - rate of smallpox from 42 per cent. to 1 per cent. ; and make all cases of smallpox comparatively mild . Who are the unvaccinated ? and the un - revaccinated ? At present, as a rule , they are the poorest , most wretched, or sottish, of the population, to whom all zymotic diseases are more fatal than to other classes ; enormously and fear fully more fatal. Let the statisticians settle how the forces of severity and mortality are to be apportioned. Non - vaccination has, as competing causes of its 42 per cent. of death ,-drink, poverty, crowding, all final foulness, deep sluins only heard of because smallpox is there. Ilow much of the 42 per cent . is due to non -vaccination ? And how much to abyssal slums, including moral slums ? There were many mild cases of  smallpox  in the world before Vaccination was heard of. Has the death rate of unvaccinated persons increased under the present treat ment ? Forty - two per cent. of bad cases lost, as a constant quantity , is an awkward comment on any mode of treat ment. It were well for medical consciences to be dis satisfied with it . Are the doctors continually on the move to try means after means, and to trample orthodoxy after orthodoxy, to abate the pestilence of that statistic ? It is a disgrace to them . If the statistic is crazy because it overlooks all raging causes of disease existing in the slums of the people, and alleges all their destructiveness to the fault of little non vaccination , it may well be also suspected from the historical character and antecedents of the statisticians. When cholera was in London, a Homeopathic Cholera Hospital was opened in Golden Square, for treating cholera patients . The House of Commons moved the College of Physicians to procure statistics of all the treatment of cholera in all London hospitals. The statistics were sent in , and res pecting those of the Homeopathic Hospital, Dr. Mac SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION. 17 loughilan , the Government inspector, certified that the Homeopathic treatment was the most successful of all in what he certified were real cases of severe cholera ; and he added that though not a Homeopath, he, were he a sufferer from cholera, would be constrained by the Homco pathic success to become a Homeopathic patient for that disease . The Blue Book of all the statistics was ordered to be printed under the directions of the College of Phy sicians. That Blue Book appeared . But the Ilomæo pathic return of cases was was not not inin itit .. The College of Physicians had vitiated their result, and voided the good of the book, by turning the one healing virtue out of their pages . Dr. Paris, then President of the Royal College of Physicians, was asked why he had done this. He said , Because Homeopathy is quackery. The question was, not what Dr. Paris and the College thought quackery, but what fact proved to be the best treatment of cholera. That question the College was clearly not answering in the Blue Book. It was fighting for medical supremacy with another body at the bedside of the dying. [ The House of Commons printed the statistic separately.] This is of a piece with the historical action of these chartered bodies wherever medical dissent crosses them . In all such cases , * their statistics are vitiated by the love of supremacy which is the only unvarying fact in their career. Add then the impurity and want of single eye in the medical corporations to the abyss of the slums of London as another factor of the 42 per cent . of deaths alleged by these corporations to belong entirely to non -vaccination . Reader, take in the passion with which those statistics are engendered ; the clique force which lives in every figure : they look cold enough in columns and lines ; but every cypher is white hot if you attempt to handle it . It has been gathered with tones unmistakable from the least reliable, poorest creatures in the town : beings whose 2 18  smallpox  AND VACCINATION . memories from their dire circumstances drop piecemeal from month to month ; and of whom, in many cases, family ties can hardly be alleged ; whose oath as to whether they, or theirs, have been vaccinated , is idle wind ; and if leading questions are put, signifies mere falsity ; it has been gathered by powerful medical cliques which for their very life now, have a case to make out ; and which have for a long stream of history shown similar passion , and have for ag es been chased by fact from fortress to fortress of their own delusions ; and from everything but their love of supremacy. Reader, take all these factors in , and deduct them from the figures of death ascribed to non vaccination, and you will scout the figures ; and be little liable to be deceived in the future,, when you find that statistical tables of disease and of treatment may be mere masks of medical passion. As they were in the cholera tables drawn up by the Royal College of Physicians. For the most part in the said 42 per cent. of fatal cases, the fact of non- vaccination cannot be verified . In the majority of such cases, the person is so concealed by the disease that it is difficult to tell whether he is old or young ; and hence the fact of his Vaccination rests upon a hear say gathered by a voice and an ear determined for only one answer to the question. The 42 per cent. statistic of deaths alleged to non - vaccination , may therefore be relegated to the limbo of asser tion gathered from the fields of a foregone purpose , and not from the good grounds of fact. The statistic itself comes of those thoughts which Lord Bacon characterizes as " steeped in the affections,” - in this case, in the affection or lust of medical rule . Where are we then? Owing tothis passion, now embodied in laws,colleges, in a great profession, and a corresponding police, and closing in fines and in jails for the poor, and in threats for all malcontents and dissenters ; owing to this passion, we do not know , and we cannot know , whether Vac 11  smallpox  AND VACCINATION . 19 cination is any protection against the severity and mortality of smallpox, or not. Personally, I have no founded concep tion on the subject, because no trustworthy data. The buttresses of Vaccination argument are as flimsy as the castle of Vaccination statistics is illusory. They are the weakest outworks of the medical passion in its war on the health of the people. The nurses in  smallpox  hospitals are all vaccinated, and they never take the disease. Some of them , they tell me, are pitted with Smail- pox previous to becoming nurses ; and the most are of "" a certain age ” little liable to  smallpox . But do not my medical brothers know that nurses and doctors enjoy a large immunity from the con tagious and infectious diseases which they attend. Fear lessness in their functions at the beginning, and afterwards custom with the diseases, protect them ; or otherwise both the nursing and medical professions would be down with the various diseases of London continually. Deduct this fact from the immunity of nurses, and how much of it remains due to Vaccination ? In Ireland the smallpox has been stamped out by Vaccination. The ground here is a little sacred from the tradition of a similar instance ; the toads and serpents were stamped out by St. Patrick . The case is precisely similar : in both cases the stamping was successful because the stamped object was not there. When he comes, the stamping mania of Vaccination will wear out the feet of Old Physic without making any impression upon Irish  smallpox . What amount of credulity can believe that our dear Paddy, with his habits and his cabins, is a perfectly vaccinated creature ; that his inimitable power of non -society, of secret organization, of resistance to general orders, is contradicted here ; and that the wolf of general Irish lawlessness is a lamb in the single fold of  vaccination ?  20 SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION. In the few days since this was written smallpox is announced to be making steady ravages in Ireland ; and the doctors, who accounted for the absence of the disease by the universal stamping of Vaccination, now account for its prevalence, and weekly increase, by the statement that Ireland is “ only half vaccinated. ” What ground to go lipon is there in such assertions and statistics ? The same fact was alleged of Sweden in 1842 ; of Sweden, " the best vaccinated country in Europe : " only two deaths occurred from smallpox; and Old Physic then: said : “ Lo ! triumph ! Vaccination has stamped out Small : pox !” But again, Lo ! In the next four or five years the figures rose steadily to an annual death -rate of between 2,000 and 3,000 in well- vaccinated Sweden.  smallpox  was easily stamped out when it was not there ; but so soon as it came, its heavy feet made a football of colleges. Dr. Lyon Playfair, M.P., in a clever speech traced the statistics of the decline of smallpox coincidently with the terrific frowns of the House of Commons, embodied against the monster in the various vaccinatory laws culminating in the last Act of Universal Compulsory Vaccination. He made out most beautifully that every fresh turn of the Parliamentary screw wrung the withers of the disease ; and that complete compulsion would banish it from the earth. John Bull entire had only to take Jane Cow in his arms, and they two would defy the foe. Unhappily for the beauty of his statistics , they were pitted with a few afterthoughts. In the first place, the diminished death - rate was so immediate on Act after Act of Parlia ment, that the effect was clean against time if Vaccination were supposed to enter into it . The smallpox might have been frightened by the Laws, but could not have been hurt. In the second place, the Acts were at first. coincident with outbursts of Small -pox, after which, decline of the disease is the way of nature : proving that.  smallpox  AND VACCINATION. 21 the coincidence is by a Natural Law. In the third place, which seams the face of the Doctor's speech from vertex to chin, and puts out its eyes , —after the Law of General Compulsory Vaccination has had time to work , and has worked, a worse outbreak of smallpox than before, occurs ; and has to be accounted for by the statistician on some grounds quite different to the power of Parliament through Vaccinatory Laws over  smallpox . Doctor, what are those grounds ? I ask you with pained interest, as being myself a member of a Special Commission of the poor men and women of England who won't have their children's blood violated and poisoned by Acts of Parliament; and who, if even they are ascended from gorillas, refuse to have their natures mixed again with the disease of beasts . What are those grounds ? You will answer at once, --The Anti-Compulsory Vaccina tion League. But men will know everywhere that this “ small body of fanatics ” has no influence to account for the fact. You will say secondly, the absence of universal re - vaccination. But neither vaccination, nor re-vaccina tion is known to check the spread of smallpox, however mild the form induced ; and when once the disease is among us, it can spread from the mansion, in which it does comparatively little death, to the slum in which it does all death . That you know is perfectly natural . Why, the tenants of our slums are in such a state physically, that to scratch them each and all with a pin at fever-time and disease-time, would cause a considerable mortality in Lon don. And when smallpox, ever so mild elsewhere, creeps upon the slum , men and women and children , they, the proper food of death, die in shoals. Vaccination, if you could do it, and watch the results, would kill shoals of them at once. No theory of the case is needed. When smallpox is not here, it has no death-rate. When it is here, its death- rate has little to do with Vaccination>, and 22 smallPOX AND VACCINATION. almost everything to do with bad habits, depressed minds, and filthy slums. Almost everything to do with the apathy and somnolence of Parliament. As soon as this outbreak is done, if you will pass a tremendous Compulsory Law, and use the military to en force it, you will find that the decline of Small -pox, and the existence and working of the Law, will go side by side for a time. Simply because, as I told you before,  smallpox  always mitigates its ravages after a great attack has been consummated. After a great scourge of cholera, if you will smoke a pipe every day for ten years, you will also find that the absence of cholera, and the smoking of your pipe, are contemporaneous pieces of history. But the slums, Doctor, --they are the causes of  smallpox  ; and the taking of patients out of the slums through the various neighbourhoods, the medical taking : that is a chapter of wide infection . When the  smallpox  exists, move and touch the person as little as you can : let him or her be, and clear the neighbourhood from about him . Don't infect Hampstead* and Haverstock Hill out of St. Giles, as you are now doing. But how can you clear out the slums ? Very easily, if you will make war upon. them ; but not if you enter into a treaty of peace with them , while you make war upon all healthy persons and places. At present Parliament is much bent upon Compulsion : in the present case, the compulsion of Papa Medicine upon the thirty-three millions of patients whose health, failing to come from heaven, comes only through the channel of * Four hundred smallpox patients gathered in Hampstead ! Patients taken up in open ambulances on the side-walks ! Mothers and nurses , and children ,have to run for it to avoid them ! An ant- walk of patients going, convalescents returning, and I suppose, coffins carried somewhere. The very shaking up of London in the Government bottle of smallpox ! And ridiculous Vaccination , Parliament's gift per contra . Strain at gnats and swallow camels. smallPOX AND VACCINATION, 23 papa, who alone kuows what is good for his little ones, But Parliament will discover that this compulsion has not obvious honesty enough about it , or results of health, to . be borne by the patients, who are more important to Parliament than Mr. Simon and Papa Physic. And so Parliament will have to gratify its love of compulsion by allowing to the people their own private doctoring, or no doctoring ; and by attending to its own proper business, of national, municipal, and rural general well-being. Nothing to do whatever with poisoning people's arms or opening their bowels. Everything to do with the forcible abolition of all buildings and styles of building that make disease and epidemic inevitable to the community. Here is room enough for general officers, field -marshals against disease, working through surveyors and engineers. But medicine, a purely private art, has nothing to say or do in the case . Take the fact of Westminster. Out of its square miles of squalor blossoms a colossal marquis : his surveyors and engineers are re-building on a Paris scale aristocratic London, because it was not fine enough for the rich before : the palaces were not sufficiently palatial. Now why not compel here ? Why not cure my Lord of Westminster of moral smallpox. Why not make the face of his social conscience less full of The Pit ? Why not enact that the money crops of Westminster shall be put into filthy and not into already splendid Westminster ; that every question able tenement in it shall be re-built ; that Peabody houses universal, or something better, shall rise, and be West minster ; houses for the poor with good greensward between them ; and that this shall be done of compulsion by the landlords of Westminster from one age to another ; they being forced to improve their estates in this matter ; and to administer their royal wealth in this manner ? Why not ? . t a :24 SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . To this compulsion it must come at last. And the peddling compulsions of vaccinating people whose very homes and bodies are deathbeds, and of taking them through healthy neighbourhoods to centres of infection, must be abandoned . State medicine, that despotic lie , must be abandoned, State health , the good of the people, must be thought of. A heavy argument is thought to rest in the decline of smallpox since Vaccination was introduced . And in the few persons one now meets who are pitted with  smallpox  . Since then , however, inoculation has been forbidden by law, on purpose to limit the propagation of the disease ; moreover, the treatment is different. In former times, everyone who had smallpox was put into the slum -condition at once ; fresh air and water were sedulously excluded ; and crowding and stifling with bedthings and curtains, was carried out. That alone accounts for a vast difference in death and disfigurement. Does it not ? But again, cholera has sensibly declined since it first appeared in India ; has declined in every country in the world. Why, we do not know ; but it is certainly not owing to any medical procedure. Plague has declined ; the sweating sickness has disappeared ; syphilis is constantly on the decline ; the leprosy of the middle ages, with its ten thousand hospitals, has died away ; but medical prowess is not to thank for .it . Why should it be assumed if smallpox declines like all these diseases, that it alone would have been a fixture but for Vaccination ? You perceive, reader, that the agency alleged of Vaccination in this result, is a baseless assumption ; and that the cases of numerous other great diseases proclaim loudly that the assumption is not necessary to account for the facts. On the other hand you know again that slums and hundreds of square miles of landlorded human putrefaction are no assumption as causes of smallpox, scarlatina, diph - SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . 25 theria, typlius, typhoid, and nearly every disease ; and therefore I compel you to face this fact, divine in its truth, and devilish in its matter, and to draft your compul sion away from the blood of little children , and to direct it by more than German requisitional enactment upon those who can be made to grasp and purify their own Augean slums, out of which their brazen palaces now rise into our air. Let every landlord be compelled to sleep for a week half yearly in the worst room in his dominions ;; the house to be selected by Dr. Farr according to the death - rate. Let him be vaccinated before he goes in if he likes. If he decline, let it be recorded as his testimony about Vaccination. From the cell-germ of that one room , sweetened by the great fortune, New London will arise, fair as loving justice, and swift as an exhalation. Legislating medical treatment ingeniously takes the mind away from the true and great problem of fiscal Sanitary legislation. It opposes some small and most dubious medical dogma to the common sense of national and municipal and rural cleanliness, air and light universal. But I ask Parliament, do the antecedents of medicine make the adoption of medical dogma into law, feasible ? Inocu lation , current for some fifty years, has been for bidden by law. The thoughts and practices of Old Physic vary with the moons. There is only one way of fixing any of them ; and that is by endowing and establishing them ; and by this method Parliament has given the fixity of cash and vested interest to Vaccination . Parliament has made a church out of cowdirt, the smallest and nastiest of churches. This, and that other foul jakes , the Contagious Diseases Act , -- an edifice in which a Royal Commission is now a- sitting ,--are, I predict, the two last prescriptions 1 which Parliament will force upon Great Britain at the bidding of the medical profession. Before it has done with Vaccination, and the money power which is its coat of 28 smallPOX AND VACCINATION . mail, it will have learnt to rue the day when it went out of its own general path to embody a poisonous puncture in a law. Let us hope that in its awakening it will not only clear the Privy Council of a medical department, but also discharter all medical bodies ,; and disconnect them from the State. So far for one side of the case ; the side against Vaccination and Re-vaccination as preventive of smallpox, its deaths, and its disfigurements. We have seen that Vaccination does not prevent smallpox ; and that there is no proof that Re-vaccination prevents it . We have seen that the diminished death - rate alleged in vaccinated cases, has in it several other causes more obviously important than Vaccination, and which probably reduce Vaccination to minus nil. We have seen that the decline of smallpox takes place after outbreaks, just as the decline of all other un-vaccinated diseases takes place. We have seen smallpox leap up again in spite of legislation . We have seen the steady decline of the disease for one or two centuries, as we have seen the steady decline of plague and other un - vaccinated pestilences in the same time. We have seen the common sense hygienic conditions of patients, their well- being, followed everywhere by an abatement of the malignity of the symptoms and legacies of  smallpox . We have seen that misery and want are the beds of smallpox ; and that Vaccination is inevitably also one of its beds, because every disease --the Vaccine disease-increases the weakness of the body, and diminishes its resisting power. And so we have proved the negative indictment against Vaccination. We have found that there is no good thing in its bones. Yet the medical pack hunts on its scent with almost unanimous voice ; it has an endowed and established smell which pleases them. To me, as a Homeopath, their unanimity counts for nothing : I know how unanimous they are in shutting their eyes, and closing their ears, to a way smallPOX AND VACCINATION. 27 more excellent than their own. I know what they have rejected in the great truth of Homeopathy. And until they are more open- minded and open -hearted, I cannot value their unanimity as containing in it one element of strength, or of love . It is but the cruelty of routine incarnate in its vulgarity . The positive indictment against Vaccination is a different chapter, and cannot be fully written yet : but the informations which will instruct it are being prepared in several journals read chiefly by poor men and women who are almost out of the ken of the medical profession . They will form bulky documentary evidence ; and probably will be made the basis of claims for compensation by the poor in some future and better parliament, when the Medical as well as National citadels are all in the hands of the people. For money payments on a scale are I see to be in the indemnity of all social wrong -doing. What sum of money will the rich owe the poor for the deaths and destructions caused by compulsory Vaccination ? The allegation of the best informed is , that Vaccination widely spreads disease among the people ; that erysipelas immediately, and consumption, syphilis, scarlet -fever, decline , are sown broadcast by Vaccination . Now certainly, by Vaccination, physic adds one more disease to human beings. Certainly it is a beast's disease. Certainly there are sensitive people, especially the mothers of infants, so framed as to loathe the thought of it, and to wonder at a large profession not being in the main sick at the filthy little fancy of it . If this be a prejudice, it is not an astonishing But others allege more tangible proofs against  vaccination  . one. There are two parties here to put into the witness box. Let the medical profession enter the box first with the lictors before it , and the State Lancet (only to think of the State having that abomination of desolation, a lancet) in  28  smallpox  AND VACCINATION . its hand . The medical profession deposes that it almost never heard of any ill effects to the health of children or persons arising from Vaccination . (Mem . The great lords of the past might depose that they know no particular .evils arising from seduction : they see no more, and want to see no more, of the victims when the deed is done . They want very particularly not to see them .) I believe the profession almost. But then, abate this from their word of truth. They have a dogma that everything ill that follows Vaccination is not a consequence of Vaccination ; the con verse negative to the wrong use of post hoc ergo propter hoc. If a child has a bad skin disease running from the а date of ripe vaccine, that is said to be a time when children usually have skin diseases, and consequently the malady in question is not due to Vaccination . I deny that it is such a time. Does not the public see that with this article of the Church of the Cow regnant in him , a doctor can have no chance of knowing whether Vaccination causes disease or not. He is out of knowledge, and in well fenced, well feed stupidity . As far as gathering the facts here are concerned, he is an oaf in livery, and does not know a hawk from a handsaw , being clique insane. ( Mem. These are the men whose opinions Parliament makes into compulsory statutes . ) Besides this dogma, that what ever disease comes after Vaccination cannot be caused by it , the doctors extend their fortress by proclaiming that fathers and mothers, being not medical , can have no just opinion on any particular case which arises in their children . The doctor's word overrides the mother's observation coming sharp out of the mother's love. He will hear no evidence but that of his own dogma, which puts its penny pieces over his own eyes. Here are indeed two incommunicating parties. What is the relation between them ? The Vaccinator in many cases, among the poor in the most of cases, smallPOS AND VACCINATION . 29 performs his operation, sees the child a week after, and knows nothing more of mother or child thenceforth ; until she is brought to him again with a second child, to tell him how ill the first fared after his deed, and to receive from him a grand pooh -pooh ! at the end of her mother's tale of her child's sickness, or death . The child is taken to another surgeon , who also pooh -poohs, and gives a little medicine, and the longer the case lasts, the less it has to do with direct ruin by Vaccination . She finds the medical men sealed against her piteous story all round. As a man at Plymouth , whose horrid dominion is over 2,000 women a fortnight, said of the poor wretches violated by the Con tagious Diseases Acts, “ Welisten to no complaints.” Is Parliament going to proceed on this ex -parte evidence ? Does Parliament not know that the opinions of professional experts are not safe unless common experi ence is added to them from the largest field of good sense and ordinary attestation ? What then is to be done ? let a Parliamentary I say , Commission sit in any great borough of London, and summon the Vaccinated poor, and take their depositions with regard to the effect of Vaccination on their children , Let there be a house to house visitation , such as Mr. Gilpin's canvass of Northampton proved to be, when he said it was pitiful to go from one to another, and to have to listen to the long story of disease and death which parents forced upon him as the sequel of the Vaccination laws. I maintain that parents do know much, and all, about these consequences. They see their immediacy upon Vaccination , The Vaccinators do not. They watch every point of the vaccination diseases . The Vaccin ators dodo not. In reality they have a scientific knowledge which the Vaccinators have not, if science is founded upon experience, and ever-widening expe rience, and comparisons of experience. And then  30  smallpox  AND VACCINATION . they have quick affections which gather the terrible know ledge, where the Vaccinators have now but the love of power, and for eyes, dogmas, which are not to see. I have taken the trouble to inquire of parents whether they had ever known evil consequences to arise in their homes from Vaccination . And the results are curious. Knowing that I am a medical man , at first they were silent on the subject. But when they found that I was not one who “ listens to no complaints,” they have in many cases opened to me a breast of suffering. From my inquiries I state under full responsibility of the statement, that I could without difficulty gather tens of thousands of cases of serious and irreparable evil, and a large rate of death, if I were able to make anything like a wide inquiry. A figure so great, that after all eliminations and honest deductions, it would appal the people, and make them cry aloud for guarantee and indemnity. This morning, February 27th, in my Dispensary practice, a poor woman , Mrs. T., ( thanks to Parliament, I dare not mention her name) brought in her baby. Her words : “ Vaccinated last September. A fat , strong boy till he was done . Never well since. Wasting away . Arm never has got well. ” I examined and saw . “ A similar place on forehead and throat. ” I saw them . “ There could not be a stronger child than this was before. Three days afterwards he came out with something which the doctor said had nothing to do with Vaccination. She is now being summoned to have a second baby done !" Out ! child of hell by Parliament ! Out ! damned Law ! If this happened to Mr. and Mrs. Gladstone, and they had had the utter conviction which these poor parents have, they would, or could, have paid fines, and kept their next child unvaccinated ; but this blacksmith cannot pay the fines , and must go to prison , and let his wife go to beggary, or offer up another babe to what they regard as  smallpox  AND VACCINATION . 31 State murder. That blacksmith is certainly not equal to Mr. Gladstone in the face of British law. Another case. My coachman's child was vaccinated, and took with it erysipelas, which overspread the body. The mother who was nursing it took the erysipelas, and both nearly died of it. I assert that this result, of two long and all but fatal illnesses, was, in a poor man's house, due to Vaccination, and consequently due to Parliament. 3.- Miss Edith Hutchinson , of Kensington, was vaccinated by the late eminent Dr. Joseph Laurie. The arm swelled enormously, and was hard like wood. After a month it subsided , and then a putrid thrush occurred, which disappeared after some weeks. The disease was next transferred to the abdomen, and its lymphatic system, and she died of great purulent collections in its cellular tissues, the matter, putrescent, voided by the bowels. I attended the later stages of the case with Dr. L. Vaccina tion , careful conscientious vaccination, did it as plainly as fire burns. I give this case again in Mrs. H.'s own words. “ 2, HORNTON VILLAS, KENSINGTON, " 6th March, 1871 . “ MY DEAR DR. WILKINSON, “ The dear child was in perfect health in May, 1863 ; but as smallpox was prevalent, and our household being vaccinated, she was subjected to the process ,-- though the operation had been performed upon her, and had ' taken, ' when she was four months old. Within 6 a few days of the Vaccination in May, 1863, she-— (being then nearly six years old ) - was attacked with inflammation of the lymphatic glands of the arms to so severe an extent that her arms were immensely swollen, and so heavy and hard that each arm had to be supported in a sling ; her sufferings for ten days were very great, at the  32  smallpox  AND VACCINATION. end of which time her arms gradually resumed their natural appearance. But within a few weeks the poor child was prostrated by an attack of apthous ulceration of the mouth, which was of a most distressing character from the peculiarly offensive odour eniitted from the gums, &c . The dear child was more or less delicate ever after , and, in the following June, enlargement of the abdominal glands, and mesenteric disease set in , her life being terminated by a succession of abscesses in the bowels in July 1864 ; the doctor who attended her telling me that the glandular disease had been coming on for some months. “ I felt then , and still do feel convinced that her system was poisoned by the introduction of the vaccine matter, for she had never had a spot or swelling of any kind before, nor had there been a previous case of mesenteric disease in our family. “ Ever, my dear Dr. Wilkinson, believe me, " Yours most sincerely, “ S. HUTCHINSON .” The three stages in this case are a linked chain of consequences uncoiling from the Vaccination. 1.- The Vaccination itself, poisonous lymph, producing poisonous lymph. 2.- The enormous swelling of the cellular tissues, and consequently of all the tissues of the arm ; the cellular tissues being the great plane at the end of the whole lym phatic system : the universal lymph plane . All the lym phatic vessels and lymphatic glands of the body stand in the relation of centres to the cellular tissue as their great circumference. Effects in the cellular tissue are reflected in intimate effects in the vital lymphatics. It is a great arena of transferences of fluids ; and if you disease it, of transference of diseases . It runs into the depths of every organ in the body ; and a spark of poison in its skin may SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . 33 soon be a devouring fire of poison in its mesentery. 3 .--The next stage, the malignant thrush, was no doubt the index of commencing destruction in the lymphatic system of the abdomen. 4.— The centre of the Vaccina tion was reached ; the abscesses in the abdomen were the end of the Vaccinatory deed. Verdict -- Death by  vaccination ! This was a comparatively acute case, and only lasted about one terrible year. But you can easily infer from it the certainty, in many cases , of more subtle and chronic destructions. Keep your minds open where they have before been willingly closed , and you will see. 4 .--- Lady Campbell, the wife of a British Ambassador, a (not known to me, but well known to Mrs. Hutchinson, of the last case, ) was vaccinated by a Dr. L. The vaccinated arm swelled to enormous proportions. A strong fine woman before, she died in a twelvemonth from the direct effect of Vaccination ; which the doctor did not deny. All the particulars of this case are extant, and can be verified if required. 5. -The Rev. Dr. L.'s daughter had smallpox last autumn), for which II attended her. Mrs. L. asked me to vaccinate the family. I declined , and gave my reasons. Dr. L. expressed surprise ; but Mrs. L. said she was rejoiced to hear me speak thus ; and added, “ Do you not ; recollect that our eldest son has a scrofulous swelling of the arm from Vaccination, and has never been well since ? ” He then remembered ; and I examined the son , and veri fied the fact of the disease. 6.--A well-known literary gentleman, a name known to everyone in Parliament, consulted me last autumn, for an affection of the leg, attended with a skin eruption , which a much crippled him . He said , “ Four years ago I was overpersuaded by a lady to be vaccinated ; and I have had this affection ever since. I showed it to Mr. 3 ; he 34 smallPOX AND VACCINATION pronounced it to be gout, and did not admit its connexion with Vaccination .” ( Gout may be caused by Vaccination, see p. 44. ) This case wonderfully illustrates the post hoc ergo non propter hoc pleaded against big linked facts, written out in two tangible and similar diseases , while the post hoc ergo propter hoc is held by the same surgeon in favour of the invisible, intangible, untraceable connexion supposed to exist between Vaccination and non - smallpox; or between something and nothing. To such a logic, endowment and establishment have brought the heads of the profession. The logic of fees simpl But if doctors are so subtly able to trace the absence of smallpox when it is absent, to the fact of Vaccination , than which no greater mental ingenuity is conceivable, how can they refuse the common public the right to put tens of thousands of like antecedents and consequences of the broadest kind into the same relations of cause and effect, the right to attribute visible immediate consequences to visible immediate deeds and causes ? I could multiply my cases from my own note books, but have not space ; and I will content myself with re peating that every neighbourhood is full of such cases, which are only concealed in their ghastly multitude by the Egyptian darkness, that is , the scientific darkness of the established Medical Profession. If the reader wants more information , let him consult Pitman's Co- operator and Anti -Vaccinator. I have touched the matter merely to give the pointing of my own personal enquiries and obser vations . All this experience, the whole other half of the question , is ungathered, and Parliament has legislated Compulsory Vaccination without it . Now I maintain that it is the men and women of England, especially the poor, who are the depositors of all the real scientific information on the subject. The doctors know the microscopy of pustules SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION, 35 and pock -marks ; the poor know the serpent whose trail is death in their homes. Why has Parliament cast out the science of the poor ? Why has it only listened to the venal science of the experts ? There is a class intermediate between the poor and the doctor, which can supply a link, and that is the Chemists and Druggists. To them the wounds and woes of the  vaccinated are freely taken ; they are not established into stupidity ; and they listen to the tale. If they will honestly speak out,they can tell the tale. A Parliamentary Commission ought to call their evidence in preference to that of the professional experts. But the substantial evidence will always be that of the vaccinated poor them selves, who have the real science , Why the poor ? Because their circumstances cause the Vaccine Disease, like other diseases, to create greater ravages among them than among the other classes : and hence it is a more heinous wrong to vaccinate Whitechapel compulsorily than so to vaccinate Belgravia. Add now to these facts, that in the medical darkness, the Egyptian darkness that can be felt, and that is cruelly felt by the poor, Parliament has enacted that thirty -four millions of people shall, generation after generation , bevaccin ated to lower the death -rate ( not the disease-rate) of a few thousands of cases of smallpox . Is it less than certain that the death from such a vast field of Vaccination towers over any immunity ever pretended to be secured by Vaccination ? If the doctors dispute this, in which they are themselves arraigned, let them come down from the bench, and go into the dock, and let Parliament order a personal minute to be taken of the experience of the poor ; then , and not till then , Parliament can set death against death, and strike a just balance as between compulsory Vaccination and natural smallpox. Parliament, if it will meddle with particular kinds of 20 SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . physic, ought also to enquire into the practice in its Small -pox hospitals. Do the men there, who lose 42 per cent . of bad cases, stick to their routine and violent drugging ? or do they try all the available means and new discoveries for treating smallpox ? At Hampstead and Highgate do they try the Homeopathic way, with tartar emetic in infinitesimal doses ? Do they try the Hydro pathic way, which is , I believe, excellent ; and always a good adjunct ? Do they try Mr. Rose's plan, with cream of tartar, the great success of which is alleged ? Do they use the hydrastis and reratrum viride method ? If they do not try all these ways, they are playing with  smallpox , and the death - rate is greatly due to their own perverse incapacity. Parliament, if it meddle at all , ought assuredly not to stop meddling until it searches out these things, which must affect even the half -statistics on which it makes its laws . But is not a clear case made out for abolishing compul sion ? It has been shewn that the statistics in favour of Vaccination— founded as they all are on posthoc ergo propter hoc for their own side , and post hoc ergo non propter hoc for the other side -are subtle and unreliable ; it has been also shewn that the statistics against Vaccination, gross as sick beds and coffins, come up in numbers, so that the whole foot of Old Medicine cannot stamp them down ; but they have been refused to be heard in the case. In the face of the flimsiness of the one part, and the horrible doubt of the other, what has a wise Parliament to do but to repeal these compulsory laws ? Let them compel epidemics to relax their hold on the throat of the country, by compelling municipalities to compel property- holders to set towns right, and estates to set cottages right ; but let them beware of all compulsion that rests on grounds more subtle and metaphysical than these. If compulsory Vaccination is right, compulsory Re vaccination is right, and moreover necessary. But no smallPOX AND VACCINATION . 37 parliament dare enforce it . Were it attempted by fines, it would break down ; were it carried out by violence personally, the lancet would be jostled by the pistol, the poker, and the knife . And laudable homicide, and godly homicide, and if crdered or done in court, good and just magistraticide, would become common verdicts in the land. Even the present law, if unrepealed, will lead to civil war of its own kind. Against the mother who has one child destroyed, or badly poisoned, by Vaccination , and is compelled to bring up another and another to the same ruin , it is civil war ; and she, and her kind, will clude it not by the laws of peace, but by the ways of war. If she has strong convictions, who can say what is not lawful for her to do ? She may conceal her births ; and to do so, call into existence a new and clandestine class of midwives who will turn the doctors out of the neighbourhoods of the poor. She may invent substitutes for Vaccination, such as tartar emetic injected under the skin , and forged certificates on a large scale. She will assuredly do everything to barricade her room and her neighbourhood against the compulsory Vaccinator. In the process, à complete alienation must, occur between the poor and the medical profession. And a new , an unrecognized , and probably secret medical service must supply the traitor's place among the poor. How far this will be serviceable to sanitary progress it is for Parlia ment to think . It may strike Sunday schools, and all education of the poor, heavily ; for the poor will become secretive under fear for their children's lives ; and if the Hymn Book means the poisoner's lancet, woe then to the Hymn Book. But if it will create war between the poor and the doctors , these laws, if persisted in , will speedily destroy the humanity of the profession. The doctor used to be a familiar friend in the cabin, and the poor abode ; but now he is the herald of the policeman, the bringer of fine or 38 SMALI. - TOX AND VACCINATION. imprisonment, the stern derider of the mother's eye, and the mocker of her complaints, the minister to her children as she believes of disease and of death . He is not the single- eyed man of charity, but the tool , the protected tool of the State, as the State is itself, by base sufferance, the tool of the medical head- centres. What is his comfort to the lying -in bed, if his knowledge of birth which he thus gains, is treacherously turned into a summons against father, or widowed mother, to render her child to Vaccination in three months'time? He can only be detested while he serves . Ilis own heart, and capacity, must be seriously affected by the State making him into a spy, and an informer, and his studies and his skill cannot but be wasted by the sense of official power against the people, where he ought to be a minister and interpreter of nature only, and a private friend of the poor man's needs. Panic is the direct out- come of the present laws ; and panic is a potent feeder of Small -pox. House to house Vaccination puts all persons in dread ; and the vast fee field which is thereby created corrupts the senses of the medical profession. The bigger the panic the greater the profits. In the meantime, the death - rate is scarcely affected by the disease, which only robs scarlatina of its usual victims ; for when the one disease rises the other falls, so that nothing is gained to present life. In the last week , when 227 died of  smallpox , the whole death -rate was six under the average of the ten years . But the doctors stupefy themselves and terrify the public, by proclaiming “ the. terrible scourge ” of  smallpox , when scarlatina, a scourge far more dreadful, is unnoticed in their public action alto gether. This moral deadness is a direct consequence of the endowment and establishment of the treatment of one particular disease by Parliamentary acts. The laws indeed confound the mind by their stupidity of conception . Within three weeks I , as a medical adviser, SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . 39 have urgently recommended between twenty and thirty families not to be vaccinated . I have done so on all the grounds I know , with all my light, and all my conscience. As a medical mån I am entitled to an opinion , and am a a free agent . But what is my relation to the law ? It is undoubtedly, without intending offence, a seditious relation. a If I could be heard, I would prevent all London from being vaccinated ; at any cost I would prevent it . If dragoons were in the streets to do it, I should still stand only in a medical right and say to the people, " at all hazards do not be vaccinated . ” Again I ask , - Is my little light and skill forbidden by the laws ? And am I a traitor to my country because, as a medical man, I do what I know to be right for the people ? Perhaps you will say, I ought to succumb to the pro fession . I answer, that all the gain of wan by time comez out of minorities of one, and that we, the Anti- Vaccinators, cannot yield. I know the profession too well, its fashions, its fluxions, its prejudices, its passions, its hopes and its fears, to be able to cede an inch of insight to its decisions, embodied in, and further vitiated by, Acts of Parliament. Upon this particular question I know that the profession , in spite of its routine, is a hot mass of uncertainty and unhappiness. There is nothing for us to do but to resist . And those who resist here will have on their side the working people of England, and in time the majority of the House of Commons. The agitation against the Compulsory Vaccination laws cannot die, but is growing every hour. The attempted coercion of the people by medical despotism cannot die, but is growing every hour. And the Gladstone Ministry, determined upon one permanence, its own dynasty, cares nothing about small questions that kill and maim hundreds of thousands, because these questions 40 smallPOX AND VACCINATION. do not seem to imperil the Gladstone empire, the Cabinet life. The people, the masses, often invaded, always invaded by these party lusts, the frontiers of their rights constantly infringed, and their homes wasted by empire-loving Gladstones, who are determined to secure to the bullet boys of party their thrones, the people are not yet drilled ; but there is a nucleus of militant resistance springing up in the ANTI- COMPULSORY VACCINATION LEAGUE, and the NATIONAL ANTI- CONTAGIOUS DISEASES Acts AssOCIATION . The only thing you can do, my brothers and sisters of the British Islands, who have bodies to be defended, and babes to be defended, is to pass into the ranks of these little armies, by your allegiance, and by your money, where you will be silently drilled and informed for the coming hour. Medical despotism, the despotism of science, Egyptian darkness and Egyptian despotism , that which brings down upon your houses the curse of the death of the first -born, the worst despotism of all is going, when you are fully ready, but after hard fields, to die the death . As against the medical Gladstone Govern ment, to- day is your Jena ; if you join ranks obediently and heartily , another not distant day will be your Paris. You must insist on new frontiers to your homes, fron tiers of fortified right over your persons, which medical science and medical men cannot overstep without your sovereign pass, and then always as private citizens . You must insist on the demolition of all the fortresses from which they have sallied against your lives ; on the dis chartering of all medical and scientific corporations . You must have Science itself completely dismantled , and reduced to its own exact but utterly individual authority, or you will never be safe ; for science, erected beyond its place into any power not its own, is the worst tyrant of all ; red democracy is nothing to it ; and while governmental fortresses of it stand , you are a constantly invaded people. SMALL - POX AND VACCINATION . 41 You know, now , by experience, that the rule of science by divine right is the most enslaving of superstitions ; that an uninspired schoolmaster on the throne, or above the throne, ferruling over grown men and women , is a very devil incar nate. Besides this, during the civil war now waging, you must keep account of your destructions -- careful books of harm to persons and to industry, and life, wrought by these Government Acts , - first least volumes of the new Dooms day Book of God and the People, --and when the day of treaty comes, you must demand from the common stock your war indemnity. The first Parliament of the people will levy it for you . And if Mr. Gladstone be then Prime Minister, as we trust he will be, he is greatly capable of assessing from the poor man's point of view , under the poor man's thumb and pressure, to secure his dynasty , the Weregild to be paid ; the value of babies to the mother, and of sons and daughters to the country . MARCH 4, 1871 . NOTES . The profits accruing to medical men from a diligent cultivation of the Fee- Field of Panic during these last weeks, are in the aggregate enormous. One practitioner, they tell me, in a neighbourhood not remote from my own , has been making sixty guineas a week by Vaccination . Statesmen, who can measure interest as a factor in the instincts of cliques and corporations ; as a creator of class doctrines ; as a power in shutting the eyes, or opening the eyes, to facts ; as a new lease - giver to ' abuses.--- of course regard heavy fees as a powerful though unconscious operant cause why the medical profession has a great love for Vaccination. It may be a legitimate love, but, were it not so, the fees would give it artificial permanence. Of that, no statesman can doubt. Gain swerves the mind very dangerously from the rails of fact, and is a general conjurer with statistics. Large profits, then, must be regarded as at least a possible element in the building of the present collegiate tables, which, while undestroyed, are professional gold mines. BAD cases are said to be due to unhealthy lymph, and the first object is to get “ healthy lymph.” Clean dirt, and healthy cow -disease !! But passing this by, we know what they mean, —that only the disease of the beast should be actual in the matter. But what a surprising want of subtlety of mind, what pint-pot materialism , as though men and women were vessels filled with blood and juices from the tap of the “ King's Arms,” reigns in the medical profession, if they can dream that matter transmitted smallPOX AND VACCINATION . 43 through the offspring of men and women for ten or twenty years, does not contain all kinds of abominations. If a drop of seed will make a man , because it is a man's, a drop of lymph will make a gout, or a consumption, or a syphilis, because it has been trailed through systems impressed with those diseases . Even if it were all mere dirty cow, cows may differ so far as to be full of hereditary taints, and our babes may take the analogues of human diseases very well from the domestic animals. There is no way out of it . ' Tis all pollution together, though the vaccinator's cauldron may have more or less complexity, or simplicity of disease and decay in it . Thoughtful dentists suggest Vaccination as a probable cause of the early decay of the teeth in this age. The sur mise gains countenance from the consideration, that the germs of the second or permanent teeth are appearing at the time selected by Government physic for performing Vaccination. Lay this down as sure-- wherever nature is busy upon any conceptive operation in the body, any sudden unnatural shock to the system is likely to impress the embryonic structure ; and hence it is feasible to suppose that if Vaccination and the beginning of the second teeth are contemporaneous, deformity of the teeth may be the birth-mark on them inflicted by Vaccination , and premature decay of the teeth, consumption of the teeth, the inheritance. smallpox at the time would not have the same power of ill, for it is taken because the system is pre-disposed to it ; but in Vaccination a disease is given by violence against pre-disposition not to receive it . VACCINATION is sometimes claimed as in principle a part of Homeopathy. Falsely, so far as Homeopathy in its whole scope is concerned. Homeopathy, by an incomparable drug- science, cancels the symptoms of disease. But there 44  smallpox  AND VACCINATION. is no case in which it aims to give a disease. Vaccination is unsuccessful unless it gives a disease. The clerks in the war office have lately been vaccinated. A large number of bad arms has been the consequence. Vaccination during epidemic smallpox is more likely to produce acute bad results than at other times ; because the town is already charged with a poisonous miasma. In this War Office, axillary abscess , and crops of boils on the body, have, I hear, followed it, and rheumatic affections have been reproduced. One reason of the latter is, that depress ing diseases bring out all the weak points. See p .34 . TAERE is also good reason to suppose that a process like Vaccination, which in its theory of prevention , affects the whole organism , is potent, and harmful, in an increasing ratio from age to age. We have work for brain and nerves which make morbid disturbances in our bodies less tolerable than they were in those of our ancestors . We cannot do that work, and live grossly as our ancestors did. Finer causes count for us, and against us. I submit that on this ground the special empoisonment of Vaccination is more against us now than it was in Jenner's day. - See if the effects of the present re -vaccinations do not bear out this remark . And also add to the subject the cumula tive effects of successive Vaccinations. The baby T., mentioned p . 30, died of convulsions in the night of March 10. The Vaccinating Doctor's certifi cate ran- Died of Congestion of the Brain during Teething. My certificate would have been - Died of Convulsions, the product of inanition and nervous exhaustion, caused by mesenteric disease directly caused by Vaccination . See what a different statistic will be gathered from the two different views. RITIS, 13 MY 71 THE END.PUISBURY