ADULT RE- VACCINATION CRITICALLY EXAMINED. A LETTER TO K P. A. TAYLOR, ESQ. , M.P., MEMBER OF THE VACCINATION COMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. « All Adam's race are members of one frame, Since all at first from the same essence came : When by hard fortune one limb is oppressed The other members lose their wonted rest. If thou feel'st not for other's misery A son of Adam is no name for thee. " THE GULISTAN . LONDON : HAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO. , PATERNOSTER ROW. LEICESTER : CROSSLEY AND CLARKE. 1871. Price Sixpence.    A LETTER ETC. SIR , As you have been appointed a member of the Committee of Inquiry on Vaccination, I take the liberty of forwarding to you a few of the difficulties incident to the re ception of the belief in Vaccination and Re- vaccination, being confident that the Committee in general, and yourself in particular, will not be disinclined to " hear both sides " on this hotly -disputed subject. Dr. Jenner, in his petition to the House of Commons in 1802, says : “ Cowpox inoculation renders through life the persons so inoculated perfectly secure from the infection of the smallpox." In 1871, we are told, on the authority of the British Government, that it is Re-vaccination, “ once properly and successfully performed," which “ does not appear ever to re quire repetition ." At the commencement of the present century seventy three of the most eminent physicians and distinguished surgeons of the Metropolis declared their opinion that “ those persons who have had the cowpox are perfectly secure from the future infection of the smallpox.” In 1871, the Royal College of Physicians ( still citing Jenner as an authority) recommend “ that all persons who have passed the age of puberty, and have not been re-  vaccinated since infancy, should be re -vaccinated ."    4 Re-vaccination is in direct opposition to Dr. Jenner's discovery. His friend and biographer says : “• The assertion ( made in 1804) that the cowpox afforded only a temporary security was then insisted on . Had it been correct, it would have deprived the discovery of half its value." (Life of Dr. Jenner, by Dr. Baron, vol. ii . 18, 19.) And again, in com menting on a speech of Lord Ellenborough, who said “ he did not consider vaccination to be a complete preventive of smallpox : it might prevent the disorder for eight or nine years," Dr. Baron remarks : “ I have seldom seen Jenner > more disturbed than he was by this occurrence ; not certainly that he had any fears that the unsupported assertion of his lordship would prove correct, but because it unhappily ac corded with popular prejudices, and was calculated to do unspeakable mischief.” (ii . 196-7. ) Dr. Jenner never pretended to the gift of prophecy. He did not merely say , he undertook to prove, that the vaccinated person was secure through life. His method was short and simple. He exhibited at various times the children he had vaccinated! ; and he shewed that all attempts to produce smallpox in them , by inoculation or otherwise, failed . Upon this he declared them proof against infection . It was of the essence of Jenner's discovery that the process of vaccination rendered those who underwent it proof against re -vaccination ; and, with his usual daring logic, exceptional cases were ac counted for by a presumed imperfection of the first vaccination . Thus, his biographer says (vol. ii . 255) , “ 2175 soldiers of the Danish army were re -vaccinated, and 998 resisted the infec tion . Every one of the larger number would have been liable to an attack of smallpox. I cannot avoid thinking that the first vaccinations were imperfect." See also vol. i . 137, where Jenner makes the boy Phipps proof against smallpox inoculation . Later in life, Jenner modified his too sanguine views. Adverse facts ( Jenner calls them “ disasters ' ' ) accumulated rapidly, and he was finally compelled to admit that cowpox was not a stronger prophylactic than smallpox inoculation . And when we read (ii . 265) that “ the lady of Mr. Gwinnett had the smallpox five times, " we cannot fail to perceive that    5 the vaunted process had, in Jenner's own day, by the inexo rable logic of facts, become denuded of much more than half its virtues. Dr. Jenner's opponents were constantly publishing cases of smallpox after vaccination, thereby causing him much annoyance. He therefore “ discovered that there were two distinct affections in dairies called cowpox : one gave protec tion against smallpox ; the other did not. It was proved to him that milkers had smallpox after true cowpox. It occurred to him that the same cow might one day communicate a genuine and efficacious preventive, and the next nothing but a local affection which could exert no beneficial effect upon the constitution . " (Vol. i . ) I am here irresistibly reminded of Sir Thomas Browne. Writing in 1679, he says : “ It is said that quartan agues come seldom twice in a man's life ; if he hath had one for a considerable time , and that it had left him for some years , or if a man should have one again , it would not last long, nor very many fits. But this last week an acquaintance of mine came to see me that was in a quartan ague, and had been since Michaelmas. He had thought himself secure from a quartan, having had one about 17 years before. Insomuch that I thought of a distinction -- that quartans were some legitimate or genuine, and some spurious. So that the ob servation is best verified in legitimate quartans: that is, a man very rarely hath two legitimate ones in his life, or if he had the first long, seldom hath the second for any consider able time.” ( Works by Wilkins . ) At an early date Jenner discovered that “ dogs when vaccinated were rendered unsusceptible of the distemper." “ Several of our great fox - hunters had their hounds  vaccinated .” * In 1801 he vaccinated twenty of His Majesty's staghounds." * In the absence of a compulsory law , this valuable discovery has fallen into disuse, and dogs in great numbers have been prematurely consigned to Hades by the infectious and contagious " distemper ” through the unreason ing obstinacy of a knot of fanatical dog proprietors. It was a belief of the peasantry in Jenner's day that dipping thrice in the Severn was a safeguard against hydro * See Life of Jenner,    6 phobia. Here the Doctor speculates on the propriety of making a new discovery. As might be expected, he depre cates inquiry into the modus operandi of the protective operation ; and foreseeing that “ disasters " might befall a too confident dipper, he naively suggests the argument that had befriended him so well in the vaccine controversy : “ There may be bad dippers as well as bad vaccinators.” ( Letter of Dr. Jenner. See Life, by Dr. Baron. ) It is now more than seventy years since Jenner's great discovery. Vaccination , which it was once fondly hoped would confront the laws of nature, and permanently rid the world of the dreaded smallpox, is now almost universal; yet the fear of this disease is as great as ever, and its continual reappearance after suppression is confidently ascribed to the hardened heresy of a knot of unbelievers. Englishmen who dare to use their common sense and right of private judgment are undergoing accumulative penalties under one of the most unsatisfactory Acts of modern legislation ; and submissive Britannia has well-nigh forgotten that efforts to obtain compulsory powers were made as far back as 1814 , in the time of those much -maligned noblemen, Lords Castlereagh and Sid mouth, in whose illiberal days “ it was impossible ( says Jenner's biographer) by peremptory decree, such as had been issued by the autocrat of Russia, to enforce vaccination in this country.” Dr. Jenner speaks of the joy he felt at the prospect before him of being the instrument designed to take away from the world one of its greatest calamities. Yet we read that in 1818 a virulent epidemic of smallpox prevailed in Britain and 座 the continent, and a great clamour arose . 147 cases of smallpox “ after vaccination " entered the London Smallpox 66 Hospital. Mr. Secretary Peel ordered investigation to be made . The Board of Inquiry satisfactorily explained that these individuals had not been properly vaccinated. “  vaccination (continues the biographer) seems ever fated to suffer more in character from events within the walls of the  smallpox  hospital than from any other quarter. Its atmosphere has always been unfriendly to the benign influence of Vac cina.” (i . 273. ) “ I wish my professional brethren may be     7 slow to publish fatal or other cases of smallpox after vaccina tion until they have good grounds for believing that their patients had regularly and duly passed through the protecting process." We read also that “ smallpox was nearly as prevalent in London in 1828 as during any of the three' great epidemics of the preceding century ." “ Disasters are accumulating in our own day. In Lon don, in 1868, there were hundreds of cases of smallpox “ after vaccination . ” In the Hampstead Hospital, this winter, 423 such cases were admitted in the first two months of its existence. Proofs are multiplying daily in every town and almost every village that vaccination is not a prophylactic ; and the piteous plight of the original dogma can no longer be concealed . Hence it has been found advisable to modify our infallible medical theories : a new creed is put forth ; not, however, with much advantage to humanity, for the question able practice of undergoing a lesser evil that is known, to prevent a greater one that is feared , is now reduplicated instead of being suppressed. Our modern Re -vaccinists, indeed, propound no proof ; for the womb of the future is closed to them . They evidently foresee that re -vaccination , if successful, will protect, or appear to protect, till the end of life . Much uncertainty and no little dissatisfaction exists on the nature and origin of lymph, and great is the mystery of cowpox in cattle. The country obtains lymph from London, and London obtains lymph from country stations. On this, as on all other vaccination difficulties, light and truth are to be found in Dr. Jenner's writings. His authority is unques tioned, and his word is final. “ In 1798 ," says the biographer, “ cowpox disappeared from the dairies.” But Jenner was equal to the occasion . He made a new discovery. He says (i . 146) : “ There is a disease in the horse termed the grease , which may be the source of smallpox . ” He had previously made many efforts to generate cowpox from the heels of the horse. He waited for months to procure the true virus. “ I even procured a young horse, kept him constantly in the stable, and fed him with beans to make his heels swell ; but    8 to no purpose. ” So far back as 1787 he had contemplated this discovery. One day “ his nephew George went with him into the stable to look at a horse with diseased heels . * There,' said he, pointing to the horse's heels, ' is the source of smallpox .' An experienced agriculturist informs me that " the grease " originates in ill - smelling stables. But his discovery fell still born ; for the popular imagination can bear nothing mediocre. And Jenner, in truth, makes no profession of sanitary know ledge. “ He proved that this equine matter exhibits all the characteristics of, and affords all the security which can be obtained from , vaccine matter strictly so called.” ( i . 148.) “ Further investigation (Jenner says) has convinced me of the truth of my assertion beyond the possibility of a denial.” a ( i. 135-6. ) In the Doctor's private journal, 17th May, 1818, we read : “ Took matter from Jane King (equine direct) for the National Vaccine Establishment. The pustules beauti fully correct." The matter from this source ( says his biographer) was very extensively diffused ; I received supplies of it, and it was likewise sent to Scotland .” (ii . 226. ) Dr. J. says ( ii . 388) : " I have been using equine virus from arm to arm for these two months without observing the smallest deviation in the progress and appearance of the pustules from those produced by the vaccine.” I cannot quote without pain the following extract ( i . 130) : “ In November, 1789, Dr. Jenner inoculated his eldest son Edward with swine-pox matter. Variolous matter was in serted into his arms at five or six different periods . In April, 1791, variolous matter was again inserted. In March, 1792, > Edward was again inoculated from a child that caught the disease in the natural way. Poor Edward ( says the biographer) lingered to the beginning of the year 1810, and then died of pulmonary consumption . He had always been delicate in health , and had, moreover, rather a defective understand ing.” (ii . 140, 141. ) No wonder that Dr. Pearson wrote to his friend Jenner : “ You cannot imagine how fastidious the people are with regard to the business of the cowpox. One says “ It is very 6 filthy and nasty to derive it from the sore heels of horses ; '   9 another says, O my God, we shall introduce the diseases of animals among us, and we have too many of our own .' All this I hear very quietly. ” Such is the language of the zeal and enthusiasm of a bygone age, which has bequeathed its errors and its certainty to posterity. “ If there were a real necessity for a renovation of lymph, I do not know what we should do," says Jenner ; " for the precautions of the farmers with respect to their horses have driven the cowpox from their herds." This was a perverse action of the perverse farmers ; for had mothers imitated it in their nurseries, by taking the precautions recommended by Miss Nightingale ( Notes on Nursing, pp. 14—20 ), their children's epidemics would have disappeared from the nur series as quickly as the cowpox disappeared from the dairies . “ If you believed in and observed the laws for preserving the health of houses, which inculcate cleanliness, ventilation, &c . , as implicitly as youbelieve in the popular opinion ( for it is nothing more than an opinion) that your child must have children's epidemics, don't you think that your child would be more likely to escape altogether ?" ( Notes, p. 20.) But the recom mendations of Miss Nightingale (pure air and pure water ), as plain and simple as those of the thinly veiled apologue of Naaman, as little relished and as little understood, are un suited to our sensational age, which requires a grand specific to secure health in the smallpox dens of the Lancashire manu facturing towns, the cellars of Liverpool, and the blind alleys of London. Jenner's great antagonist and contemporary, the celebrated Ingenhousz, has left on record a remark, that “ those sick cows give out a very offensive stench from the lungs and the udder .” Does this indicate pleuro-pneumonia ? And is our veterinarian as variable and uncertain as our medical nomen clature ? Apart from the " general and natural belief that deliberate and reiterated assertions must have some foundation, ' * the most imposing proof of vaccination is the universal desire to believe in its efficacy. It is imagined that the faith of a united nation can overcome the laws of nature ; and + Professor Huxley. 10 people accept vaccination because they are told that every one else does . This is the Quod semper quod ubique et ab omnibus of the fathers of the church : expressed more clearly and more anciently by the chorus in Euripides :-- “ Whate'er with uniform consent The multitude hath practised and approved, As an unquestioned truth will I proclaim. ” Bacchanalians. - Wodhull's translation . I could understand the doctrine of the vaccinators, if measles and smallpox were entities outside of us struggling for admission, like the demons who formerly represented lunacy, and against whom we were protected in happy England by exorcism till the 18th century. But modern science maintains that these diseases are impurities within the body striving to get out. As Miss Nightingale says, “ they are the reactions of kindly nature against the conditions in which we have placed ourselves." > According to Dr. Jenner, smallpox is a malignant form of cowpox, and cowpox originated in the horse's heel, although he had formerly expressed his belief that cowpox was coeval with the brute creation, where, we may suppose, it lay incu bating, generation after generation, like original sin , till CAUSE arose and brought it into life and vigour. Our modern vaccinists see no contradiction in Jenner's changing views ; and they may find their justification in the ordinances of Menu, the lawgiver of India, where we read , in the transla tion by Sir William Jones of the Gloss of Culluca, that " where there are two sacred texts apparently inconsistent, both are held to be law, for both are pronounced by the wise to be valid and reconcilable. " Dr. Jenner, when an apprentice, heard a country girl say a to her master : “ I cannot have smallpox because I have had cowpox ." He has, perhaps unintentionally, immortalized > this popular notion of the Gloucestershire dairymaids. His “ discovery"” was, that cowpox and smallpox were not different diseases, but that one was a mild and the other a malignant variety of the same complaint, and that inoculation by the mild variety secured the person from infection by the malig nant variety ; and he said (i. 294) : “ I have not the most C G 11 distant doubt that any person who has felt the influence of perfect cowpox would ever be susceptible of that of the  smallpox  . ” He further declared that inoculation for smallpox did not protect from a second attack, but that cowpox did ; and in 1818, when numerous cases of smallpox after vaccination occurred , he decided that such persons had not been properly vaccinated. His biographer says : “ Early writers generally believed that smallpox might affect the same individual twice. Dr. Mead promulgated a different opinion ; and that opinion was so blindly followed , that when smallpox did occur a second time it was set down as chickenpox, swinepox, or some other Dr.66 eruptive disease.” Hennen says : The truth had been obscured by giving the disease a specific name, such as swine pock, or chicken pock, when in fact it was a disease of variolous nature and origin .” This position, Dr. Baron thinks, has been almost demonstrated : and it can scarcely now be doubted that the unwillingness to believe that smallpox could occur twice in the same person had suggested the expedient of getting rid of the difficulty by giving the disorder a new appellation." Is it disease, or its nomenclature, which changes from century to century, impeding research, and perpetuating erroneous dogma ? It is well that Jenner did not live in the days of the Leprosy and the Plague ; for had he in 1665 discovered that vaccination of any kind was a protection against those disor ders, their subsequent decline and disappearance from England would be the most convincing proof of the efficacy of the specific that a Briton could require. Vaccination would a have been perpetrated for ages ; submission to the mild form would have mercifully saved our children from the malignant form ; and sporadic cases would have been attributed to imper fect or unsuccessful original vaccination , to unbelieving heresy, and to the unfeeling omission to re- vaccinate at the age of puberty. My sympathies follow a closer reasoner than Jenner. a “ Our ancestors of 1665 were themselves the authors both of plague and fire ;" for “ pestilences will only take up their  12 abode among those who have prepared unswept and ungar nished residences for them .” (Lay Sermons. Huxley. ) Some will venture to assert that smallpox has been stamped out in Ireland and Scotland. As nearly one- third of the deaths in Ireland are unregistered , their causes are unregistered too ; and this confident assertion may therefore be confronted with another as confident that smallpox is now present there. The " Lancet " mentions seventy-nine cases of smallpox last year in Belfast alone. And what if smallpox has been to some extent exchanged for the rubeola nigra ( black measles) , febris nigra (black fever ), and the “ malignant form of scarlatina " of the Irish Registrar General's Reports ? The all-important question is, Has vaccination rendered zymotic disease less prevalent or less fatal ? The Scotch Registrar -General says “ The mortality from scarlatina and measles in 1868 was above the average. The deaths from smallpox are low. The deaths from zymotic disease are increasing. It is not the same epidemic which takes the lead in each locality, but one epidemic here , and another there takes the lead, throwing the others into abeyance ; so that, what between the in crease of the one and decrease of the other, the general zymotic mortality of the locality is not much affected .” Malthus says : “ Smallpox is fatal in Scotland once in seven or eight years ." Smallpox is not necessarily fatal. It is fatal in the cellars of Liverpool ; in the odorous alleys of our large towns; in the sewer- gas basements of noble dwellings; and in the wretched abodes of the London poor. But in the open villages of the Gloucestershire downs it is the healthy cowpox, Voltaire's “ depuration du sang, ” which has been discovered to be smallpox itself in its milder form , by Dr. Jenner, the discoverer of vaccination . Hitherto we have been authoritatively told, that  vaccinated persons are armour -plated against smallpox. Thus we read in the Irish Registrar -General's Report for 1867, that ' infants vaccinated in 1865 have been exposed to the in fluence of smallpox, sleeping in the same bed with children so affected, and have completely escaped .” If this authori > tative statement be correct, the alarm created by the existence  13 of unvaccinated persons is unfounded, and can only arise in minds predisposed to doubt ; unless, indeed, the vaccinated are, like Achilles, vulnerable in the heel. > Jenner's theory met with a determined resistance from the a faculty on its first promulgation, which abated when he ob tained the ear of the ladies of the Court, to whom he promised security from disfigurement. Dr. Ingenhousz, the Emperor of Austria's physician, corresponded with Jenner. He dis liked the miraculous ingredient in the vaccination theory, which, curiously enough , is now its strongest support. To him it was “ incredible that it should render the habit unsus ceptible of smallpox, and not of its own specific action .” But when a controversy, involving the most potent of bribes to the female sex, is remitted to the decision of an uncritical public, such as that of 1800, there can be little uncertainty as to the result. And the more obscure the phenomena, the greater will be the faith of the multitude. It is undoubtedly true that some great men have believed in vaccination ; others are reticent before the popular wave . “ The aberrations of great men of genius ( says Hallam ) are to be ascribed to the circumstance that most of their know ledge of their earlier years is allowed to remain unaltered by the maturer genius of ripened age.” Thus, Socrates had his dæmon ; Leibnitz his monads ; Descartes his tourbillons ; Newton his apocalyptics; Berkeley his tar water ; Ministers of Religion their witchcraft ; and Ministers of State their vaccination . It is urged in favour of vaccination, that hospital nurses and servants do not always become infected . Why should they, in buildings constructed purposely to recover from the disease ? Is smallpox a demon, which, when driven out of one body, seeks another in which to dwell ? In Dr. Buchan's popular work , smallpox is only “ an effort of nature to free herself from an offending cause.” Place these nurses in the wretched homes and impure air of the patients in the pesti lential purlieus of generous and benevolent London, instead of removing the patients to them, and few indeed would escape, however miraculous the vaccination . “* True nursing ignores infection, except to prevent it. Cleanliness and fresh 14 air from open windows are the only defence a true nurse either asks or needs.” ( Miss Nightingale. ) We are told that these > nurses and servants of the London Smallpox Hospital have been “ living in an atmosphere of concentrated infection " for thirty years. Are we to accept this also as a proof of the benefits of vaccination ? Dr. Watts says the measles were exceedingly fatal in Glasgow from 1810 to 1813 ; and during this period vaccina tion was practised almost universally. Previously to this the measles was considered a mild disease . We have gained nothing by the introduction of the cowpox ; for the measles and the smallpox have now changed places with regard to their fatal tendency . " Dr. Stark says , that in 1868 the mortality from scarlatina and whooping cough was above the average. To the same effect I might quote Mr. John Waller, of the Cattle Defence Association , August, 1870 : “ Never since the rinderpest has the country sustained anything like such an amount of loss through contagious diseases as it has during the twelve months that have elapsed since the passing of the Contagious Diseases (Animals) Act. ” So also the Quarterly Journal of Science for April, 1870 : “ Pleuro -pneumonia and foot and mouth disease have been very unusual, both in extent and in severity .” And the Return of the Chief Constable of Cheshire, from August, 1869, to February, 1871 :-Number of cases of pleuro pneumonia, 386 ; killed or died, 296. Foot and mouth disease, 30,586 ; killed or died, 42. Meanwhile, farmers, shopkeepers, and workmen, throughout the length and breadth of the Midlands, very generally and very firmly be lieve that the effluvium from dung is a very healthy smell, especially that of horses . This inscrutable dogma at times con fronted Dr. Lyon Playfair, who was told in Bristol that “ doc tors agreed that dunghill smells were very healthy.” ( Health of Towns Commission , Local Reports, vol. i. 374.) Holders of this opinion, now too prevalent, are responsible for the existence of epidemic disease, both in cattle and in man. For the pendulum of smallpox swings with the laws of nature. It is imperturbable and impartial to vaccination and un -vaccina tion. It is powerfully attracted by the poisonous malaria of 15 decomposing exhalations ; but in a pure atmosphere is silent, innoxious , and immovable . It is God's centurion to rescue the prisoner and the slave from the prolonged degra dation and life- long misery which the absence of the swiftly fatal pestilence from the scheme of creation would in the inevitable conflict for place and power too often and too surely be inflicted upon them. And contagion : is it not Nature's stern reminder to the rich and to the educated of neglected duties to the ignorant and to the poor ? Smallpox has always been periodic. Were it otherwise, it would be classed, like consumption, with the non-epidemic diseases. And how can a disease be subject to periodicity except it exhaust itself ? as, for example, when by thinning households or cowsheds it prevents overcrowding. Thus, the cattle plague of modern Europe is the periodic murrain of the middle ages ; the hour of exhaustion , formerly due to proces sions and charms, is now credited to wise legislation , duly administered at the proper epoch of epidemic decline, and the intervals between the visitations are filled up in the one case by measles and scarlatina, in the other by foot and mouth disease and pleuro-pneumonia. Great stress has of late been laid upon the fatality of  smallpox  for thirty years previous to vaccination . And is it not fatal now, after seventy years of vaccination ? Stripped of all ad ventitious circumstances, smallpox becomes so mild as to disown its name, and assume the less discreditable ones of blister-pock , chicken - pock, and a crowd of other available designations. Dr. Buchan rightly says ““ It is an effort of nature to free herself from an offending cause ." Malthus says : “ The extraordinary mortality among the Ostiaks of smallpox is naturally accounted for by the extreme heat, filth , and putrid air of their underground habitations. The putrid remains of the fish and the defilements of the children are never cleared away.” J. J. Audubon says : “ All around the villages the filth of these dirty savages (the Mandans) is beyond description. In 1837, hundreds died daily ; their bodies were thrown beneath the bluffs, increasing the malig nity of the disease, and adding to its fatalness." Catlin gives similar testimony. M. Huc says : “ The Tibetans are terrified 16 at smallpox, and cutaneous diseases are exceedingly nume rous, caused by the excessive uncleanliness of the lower orders.” M. Arago says : “ In 1785, the smallpox patients in the Hotel Dieu slept seven or eight in a bed . ” “ In 1763, the Parliament of Paris found that the smallpox was multi plied and diffused by means of inoculation . In Spain , where the practice was scarcely ever admitted, the smallpox has caused less mortality than in any other country in Europe. ” ( Life of Jenner .) In England, Miss Nightingale says, “ No thing used to be so infectious as smallpox. People used to cover up patients with heavy bed clothes, while they kept up large fires, and shut the windows. Smallpox, of course, under this regime, is very infectious.'" Dr. Jenner describes the 6 customary discipline of his time preparatory to inoculation : “ There was bleeding till the blood was thin ; there was purging till the body was wasted to a skeleton ; and starving on vegetable diet to keep it so .” ( Life, i . 123. ) Ryder, in his Memorials of London, quotes a document, in reading which it is disheartening to learn that the modern sanitary doctrine that epidemics are caused by filth was known in the days of Edward III. and Henry V. In 1371, a Royal order was issued against slaughtering in the city. “ Putrefied blood runs in the streets ; the air is greatly corrupted and infected ; and sicknesses and many other maladies have befallen our officers." The order seems to have been wholly ignored by the civic authorities ; for in 1415 , another document says : “ Many sicknesses and other intolerable maladies, arising from the horribly corrupt and infected atmosphere proceeding from the public latrines, were often prevalent." There is abundant evidence in old authors, that of these “ sicknesses” smallpox was one of the most common. Smallpox might thus be proved by troops of quotations of similar import from observant writers to be simply the escape from the body, through its pores, of “ latrine ” effluvia intro duced through the lungs. And vaccination is an attempt to enable the human race insolently to withstand the morbific influences of bad water and foul air ; consequently people will vaccinate well and vaccinate often if Parliament will but spare the magnificent dung- heaps that surround their dwell 17 ings, poison their cattle, and infect their neighbourhood . As Miss Nightingale says, “ Rich people like to have their stables and dunghill near their houses . And yet these people are surprised that their -children suffer from children's epidemics . When scarlet fever, measles, or smallpox appear among the children , the first question which occurs is , where the 6 children can have caught ' the disease . They never think 6 of looking at home for the cause of the mischief. No one would undervalue vaccination ; but it becomes of doubtful benefit when it leads people to look abroad for the source of evils which exist at home." And again, in her remarks on the Report of the Indian Army Sanitary Commission, “ Great nations under our rule live among their own filth , infecting the air with it, poisoning the ground with it, and polluting the water they drink with it." And the modern scarlatina : what is it ? and did it exist under that name in Jenner's day ? Dr. Buchan describes the symptoms under the name of miliary fever (edition of 1800) , which he says is often a symptom of smallpox or measles . Undoubtedly there is an intimate connection be tween these complaints ; and we may safely conclude that the seven zymotic diseases are the hydra of antiquity, and that the attempt to destroy them separately is a harder task than that of the Danaides ; for the crucial test of vaccination is , its inability to lessen the death- rate, even from zymotic disease, in any town or village in the country. Little is known of smallpox in the Greek and Roman times . An officer of Julian's Imperial Guard-Ammianus Marcellinus - has left on record that “ the Gauls were exceed ingly careful of cleanliness ; ” and the term Gaul then included the larger portion of Western Europe. He believes that a journey (in later times a " pilgrimage " ) will remove a fever ; and he bequeaths to us the Pagan opinion, that “ the air and water becoming tainted with the smell of corpses, takes away the healthiness of a place." The great Roman empire was then nodding to its fall. Plague, pestilence, and famine marked the accession of the Northern barbarians to the Imperial purple. Aqueducts be came neglected ; sewers went out of repair ; and intramural 18 burial ( that horror of classical times) became incorporated into the moral code, and was even introduced into the churches. “ Paris ( says Howell, Clerk of the Privy Council in 1619) may be smelt many miles off if the wind be in one's face as he comes from the fresh air of the country. This may be one cause why the plague is always in some corner or other of this great city .” The stench of St. Paul's made Latimer sick. “ I think that many a man taketh his death in Paul's churchyard ; for I myself, when I have been there in some mornings to hear the sermons, have felt such an ill - favoured unwholesome savour, that I was the worse for it a great while after. And I think no less but it be the occasion of much sickness and diseases ; therefore the citizens of Nain had a good and laudable custom to bury the corses without the city ." These were the halcyon days of smallpox and other " sick nesses ; ” and we no longer wonder at the rise of the incredibly curious popular opinion ( so energetically con demned by Miss Nightingale) , that " children are born to have the smallpox and measles just as they are born to cut their teeth .” So long as vaccination was confined to infants, our matresfamiliæ were contemptuously permitted to work their own sweet will on their unsuspecting smiling babes . Supreme indifference reigned over the mysterious and fashion able lymph in all the Jennerian varieties of vaccine, equine, and porcine virus, which delighted mothers were accustomed to instil into the lifeblood of their offspring. Had it even been the dropping venom of Midgard's Serpent, it would scarcely have excited critical remark , in so little esteem is the troublous infantile community held in these School-board days. But the startling proposal of re-vaccination at the age of puberty has aroused the normal immobility of the public mind, and the question is angrily asked, What is your theory and where are your proofs ? “ The modus operandi let us not trouble our heads about, if the fact can be estab lished ," mildly insinuates Jenner, on dipping ; and the same explanation might be given of the custom still in use, of carry 19 ing on the person a white stone to prevent rheumatism . Perhaps this also loses its virtue at the age of puberty. Submit vaccination to a test, and it is a startled angel at the touch of Ithuriel's spear ; and dissolves away like the baseless fabric of a vision . Yet if the principle be sound it ought to withstand every test. “ The most ardent votary of science ( says Huxley) holds his firmest convictions, not because the men he most venerates hold them : not because their verity is testified by portents and wonders : but because his experience teaches him that whenever he thinks fit to test these convictions by appealing to experiment and observation , nature will confirm them .” Jenner perceived this, and hence his anxiety to forestal measles by swine pock, and dis temper by inoculation ; hence his experiments on Eastern plague, and his speculations on hydrophobia. All failed . Nevertheless vaccination need not be considered wholly unphilosophic. The numerous cases of attendant illness and subsequent disaster are easily accounted for by the known metaphysical impossibility of tracing the secret con nection of cause and effect. Far be it from me to blame Jenner for variety of experiment and modification of view. What, indeed, is the acquisition of wisdom but change of opinion ? Change and improvement ought to be allowed, nay encouraged, in every branch of science ; but why should vaccination be an excep tion from this law ? The arguments in defence of vaccination do not even possess the merit of originality. They are framed on the unstable reasoning which seems to be made use of by the human race for each successive unstable dogma : and con sequently they are borrowed, or rather, they descend from those of their predecessors the Smallpox Inoculators. And the resemblance is so undeniably exact in their confident self -gratulation, their substitution of hopes for proofs, and of denunciations for reasons, that I feel compelled to give chapter and verse for the quotations which shew that the same charming self -esteem , assumption of moral superiority, indignant impatience of opposition, and tendency to ascribe the ill-success of their mystic nostrums to the obstinacy of unbelievers, characterises all classes of illogical discoverers. 2 0 Few English households fail to possess a copy of the Domestic Medicine of Dr. Buchan , a work written in 1783, and therefore before the introduction of vaccination . In pp. 227-238, of the 17th edition , we have the words which con stitute the usual defence of these ever- recurring infallible theories. The salutary invention of Inoculation for smallpox, has been known in Europe above half a century ; but, like other useful discoveries, it has till of late made but slow progress. It is still far from being general. Such parents as wilfully neglect this means of saving their children's lives, are as guilty as those who put them to death. By Inoculation numbers are saved from deformity; it scarcely ever leaves any ugly marks or scars. This is the only manner of extir pation now left in our power ; and, though it may seem paradoxical, the artificial method of communicating the disease, could it be rendered universal, would amount to nearly the same thing as rooting it out. It is a matter of small consequence whether a disease be entirely extirpated, or rendered so mild as neither to destroy life nor hurt the constitution : but that this may be done by Inoculation, does not now admit of a doubt. The numbers who die under inoculation hardly deserve to be named. In the natural way, one in four or five, generally dies : but by Inoculation not one of a thousand. Nay, some can boast of having inocu lated ten thousand without the loss of a single patient. I have often wished to see some plan established for rendering this salutary practice universal. The aim is great : no less than saving the lives of one fourth part of mankind . What ought not to be attempted in order to accomplish so desirable an end ? It is surely in the power of any State to render Inoculation general. The best way would be to employ a sufficient number of operators at the public expense , to inoculate the children of the poor. Who in his senses would not prefer a lesser evil to day to a greater to -morrow , provided they were equally certain . The practice of Inocu lation ought to be made general, for while it is confined to a few , it must prove hurtful to the whole. By means of it the * Dr. Jenner says, " The smallpox will never be subdued so long as men are hired to spread the contagion of smallpox by inoculation . ” 21 contagion is spread, and is communicated to many who might otherwise never have had the disease. Accordingly it is found that nearly the same number die of the smallpox now as before Inoculation was introduced : and this important discovery, by which alone more lives might be saved than by all the endeavours of the faculty, is in a great measure lost by its benefits not being extended to the whole community.” Such were the arguments used for Inoculation. Of late they have done equally good service for Vaccination . They are now being furbished up anew for the temporary popu lar illusion of re -vaccination, and they will be again used for the next authoritative and infallible discovery which may be in unison with the sentiment of the day, for their unapproachable logic has received the gift of perpetual rejuvenescence and everlasting youth. Even whilst I am writing, it is recorded that nine out of eleven of the patients at the Hampstead Hospital are dis covered to have been vaccinated . A conclusive proof of the utter uselessness of vaccination. And when we are asked to admit the cogency of this kind of reasoning : “ Seven children had smallpox, of whom the four strongest had been vaccinated and recovered, and the three who were too weakly and fragile to be vaccinated died ,” (a London clergyman's proof of the merits of vaccination ) we, in Lei cestershire, who are readers of Mill, and Froude, and Huxley, and to whom even the logic of Tyndall (in his germ theory ) seems weak, are less inclined than ever to submit to authority without investigation. And whilst one authoritative writer expresses his opinion that vaccination renders the subsequent smallpox milder than what he foresees it otherwise would have been, and another equally infallible authoritative writer expresses the fact, that the present epidemic is unusually malignant in character, surely a Committee of the British House of Commons will not counsel the nation to close its eyes to facts and disbelieve the evidence of its senses . I am, Sir, Most respectfully yours, A LEICESTERSHIRE INQUIRER.