VACCINATION : A LETTER IN REPLY TO AN ARTICLE IN THE “ LEEDS MERCURY.” JUNE 11TH , 1870. BY JOHN PICKERING. R SECOND EDITION . LEEDS : HENRY W. WALKER, BRIGGATE AND SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 1871 .    PREFACE. In issuing a second edition of this pamphlet, I wish, for the con venience of the reader, to summarise the views entertained by the author, and enforced in the following pages. They are, briefly, as follows: 1. That the mortality from small -pox since 1798 has diminished in conse quence of the discontinuance of inoculation , and, further, by the carrying out of great and important sanitary reforms throughout the country , and that it is not attributable to vaccination. 2. That vaccination is a folly and a crime, -that it is not a prophylactic against  smallpox , but, on the contrary, is, in itself, a fruitful source of diseases, which are yearly on the increase. 3. That, admitting the annual saving in smallpox deaths, as compared with the mortality of the last century (which was occasioned principally by inoculation ), yet other diseases of the same type have so increased, many of which are traceable to vaccination, that the high death - rate from zymotic diseases, instead of diminishing, is kept up to the average of former years, so that instead of a saving there is merely a displacement of mortality. 4. That other diseases, such as scrofula, syphilis, pneumonia , &c. , are com municable by vaccination. 5. That Jenner's teaching is that the vaccine virus is obtained from a disease a in the horse, called " the grease . ” " 6. That all decayed animal matter is poison , - that vaccine virus is matter which has lived, is dead, and when invaccinated is in a state of putrefaction, and, therefore, a poison. 7. That exemption from epidemics of smallpox, cholera, and other diseases of the zymotic class, is not to be found in vaccination , or any practice so barbarous and absurd , but in the enforcement and extension of wise sanitary regulations, such as better habitations for the people, pure water, good food , defecation of sewage, perfect drainage, and in inculcating, amongst all classes of the community, habits of personal and domestic cleanliness, The more I reflect upon the subject of this controversy, the more I am convinced of the truthfulness of the views expressed in this communication to the Mercury. That the Editor of that journal should take no notice of it is not a matter of astonishment to me. Vaccination is a subject which    iv PREFACE, requires to be well studied ; but, instead of giving to it that amount of attention and thought which it deserves, the Editor takes up the views advocated by the medical journals, listens to his own and other people's prejudices and preconceived opinions, and then abruptly closes the discus sion. What will be the result ? Can he hope to stop the progress of enquiry ? If he does, I would tell him that he may as well try with his own tiny hands to roll back the waves of the broad Atlantic ! Vaccination is condemned, and as a practice it is as sure to be abolished altogether, before many years are past, as that to -morrow's sun will rise. Inoculation, which created small -pox, and spread the mortal infection far and wide, and sent “ millions ” before their time into the vast eternity " beyond us, was yet regarded as a blessing, and for the space of seventy years this slave became a naturalized subject ;; and so vaccination, that twice - accursed thing, has stalked to and fro on the earth, and up and down in it, for the like space of time, and men have learnt to look upon it as a heaven - born gift. The Sanitarian, however, has exposed this great deceiver: ; he has tracked him to his lair, and has disclosed to the view of all the fact that his companions are disease and death . The press may be as silent as the grave, whilst new chains are being forged, in high places, for those who will not worship in the house of this “ Rimmon ” ! What of that ? Will the law enforce compliance ? Will the expression of the national conscience be disregarded ? “ Vox populi, vox Dei. ” The end is not yet. The Sanitary Reformer sees a cloud in the distance, no bigger than a man's hand, but it will spread to all climes, and, in bursting, the tide of public opinion, like the rush of waters from the surcharged cloud, will sweep away the filth of vaccination . May God speed the cause of the right. LEEDS, May 1st, 1871 .    THE VACCINATION QUESTION . TO THE EDITOR OF THE “ LEEDS MERCURY." > SIR, —I think you will be disposed to admit that the Anti Vaccinators have not troubled you with much correspondence on this subject ; but, in the face of your leading article in Saturday's paper, * silence could only be regarded as a sign of the supremest weakness, if not of absolute cowardice. Your leader is a sort of triumphal song, and reminds me of the song of the Captain of Israel, when, fresh from the perils of the Red Sea, he sang of the glories of Him who had overthrown the Egyptians, with their chariots and horsemen ; or , perhaps, more forcibly still, of the song of Deborah—“ So let all thine enemies perish, O Lord ” —when she beheld Sisera and the Canaanitish host lay cold and dead on the plains of the promised land. There is only one thing wanting to complete the comparison, and to many minds the want of that will spoil the picture, and that is— truthfulness . I regret to say that, from the beginning of your article to the end of it, there is scarcely a word of truth about it, and this applies equally to the facts and to the figures. It is evident from the article, as a whole, that you have hitherto studied only one side of the subject. Depend upon it, no future editor, when writing on this subject, and turning over your papers for forty years back , will say, as a sequel to that article, as was said on Sisera's unhappy death : “ And the land had rest for forty years. It is an article much to be regretted, both for the " spirit in which it is conceived, and for the impression which it conveys. But now , as briefly as I can , to the subject under discussion. I object, in the first place, to the order of your argument, in dividing the Anti- Vaccinators into two sections, and in placing them under the leadership of Dr. Blanc, Professor Newman, and others. So far as Dr. Blanc is concerned, it would be difficult to find a single person in the whole country who ever regarded him as a leader ; he is a mere empiric, and as soon as he found that the medical pro fession would not patronise his heifers, he packed them up, and, A copy of the article referred to is to be found in the Appendix, p. 37.    6 THE VACCINATION QUESTION . " with his " virus, ” started for a more congenial climate ! Professor Newman is, comparatively speaking, a modern convert, and has only recently taken an active part in the vaccination controversy. He is a deep thinker, and a friend in council. If you had been well acquainted with the history of this movement, you would have known that we are one in opinion with men who lived contempo raneously with Jenner himself, and, in more recent times, with such men as Mr. John Gibbs, and other members of his family, who for the last twenty years have agitated this question , and also such men as Doctors Skelton, Collins, and Pearce, in this country, and Caron , Bayard, De Paul, and others in France, who, in face of all opposition from the faculty , have denounced vaccination, and refuse to practise it. The Anti - Vaccinators are not divided ; they object to vaccination in any form , and with a bold front take their stand on one common ground. Others there are, whom we regard as outsiders, who only object to the compulsory part of the question, and yet believe in vaccination, and practise it ; these are adherents as far as they go, and we are not the less grateful for their help. You begin by stating that the panic existing in Paris on account of the presence of the smallpox “ may serve as a timely hint ” to us, > and that " the cry of our Anti-Vaccinators ” is “ a cry raised in the absence of the calamity which vaccination has removed .” And then you favour us, as others have done heretofore, with two pictures, which we have seen for the one-hundredth time—one drawn by Macaulay, and the other by Dr. Seaton , the latter of whom will doubtless be surprised to find himself in such good company. The “ blest shade ” of Macaulay ought to have been enough, without 9 bringing before us the “ bogey " of Dr. Seaton ! These are not the times in which men are to be frightened into believing dogmas which are a disgrace to our civilisation and a discredit to our Christianity ; and particularly when that is sought to be accomplished on the plan adopted by the old nurse, who, to inculcate obedience, threatened the refractory urchin that, if he did not do as he was told, she would send for the “ chimbly sweep." The England of the time of William and Mary was a different England from that of Victoria . At that time, whatever epidemic was in the ascendancy, whether smallpox or cholera, it found a soil ready for the seed, and the harvest was plentiful.* In these days, however, thanks to our sanitary regulations, * In the Pall Mall Gazette for June 4th, there is the following extract from a Lecture to the Students of St. Mary's Hospital, London, by Dr. Lyon Playfair : “ Of the chronic and wide- spread filth ( in the time of the Stuarts), arose the black death , the plague, the sweating sickness, and other pestilences, the conse quences of bad hygienic conditions."    THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 7 and to all the other healthy conditions which exist - such as better habitations, more perfect drainage, pure water, good food, and personal and domestic cleanliness, the epidemic is robbed of its terrors and its power ; and it is a fact easy of demonstration that, if all the miserable hovels and “ the rookeries ” which still abound in densely populated districts of our large towns were rooted out, and our sanitary and hygienic arrangements made as perfect as they might be — if the inhabitants were sober, industrious, and cleanly in person and home, such a thing as an epidemic would only be known as a matter of history. Zymotic diseases can only thrive and mature where there is a soil ready prepared for them. To talk of vaccination having “ removed” the smallpox is sheer nonsense ; the “ absence of the calamity ” you refer to is no more due to vaccination than it is due to the ebb and flow of the tides. If Paris would free itself from its liability to the scourge of smallpox, other measures will have to be adopted than resorting to this miserable quackery of vaccination, otherwise Paris will be " in an evil case. " Is it not a fact that the same conditions which are favourable to the development of cholera in one year, will in the next introduce small . pox, enteric or typhoid fever, and that the average deaths in any one year are about the same ? Diseases of the zymotic class are all preventible diseases, and it is found, in proportion as towns improve their drainage, obtain purer water, and better house the people, in that proportion does the mortality diminish . Thus the same causes which reduce the mortality arising from smallpox, equally operate in decreasing the mortality of other diseases of the same order, and it is to these causes that the comparative absence of smallpox is to be attributed, and to these only . The epidemic in Paris, exaggerated as it is, is an event not with out its prognostic. In former years, the people of Parisran mad after inoculation , and the consequence was that small -pox increased so rapidly that a decree was issued prohibiting the practice, and the result was by no means deplored. History repeats itself. The re action may put a different complexion upon what is now going on amongst a people who are both superstitious and impulsive; a little patience may meet with its appropriate reward. To the sanitary reformer the Annual Report of the Registrar General is now a most useful and instructive book, and there is published with it a Report of the Causes of Death , by Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., the eminent statistician. It is to be wished that all corporations would present a copy to each member of the Council, and to the heads of different departments under their control. In the Report for 1867, p . 38, the Registrar-General has the following    8 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. paragraph : -" The great towns of the country have executed a certain number of sanitary works. They are procuring better water, providing drainage, adopting measures for the restoration of im purities as soil to the earth, by police measures regulating lodging houses and dwellings ; and now the towns appear to be realising some of the results in the diminished mortality of the population. Sickness has declined. There is scarcely a trace of the threatened cholera epidemic, which is still ravaging parts of Europe. Nothing in this country, perhaps, so well deserves the attention of the Sultan of Turkey, and the Pasha of Egypt, as the great fact that England, which was once ravaged by the plague that preys in the East, is free from that pestilence, and has now learned how to disarm the terrible cholera of its malignity. ” Then, again, at p. 46, the Registrar of Lock wood, in his report, states that the health of the inhabitants was very much improved by the beneficent provisions carried out by the Local Government Board, and says, that in the fourth quarter of 1867 “ there have been no cases of smallpox, measles, scarlatina, or whooping cough ;” and the Registrar-General adds : “ This gratifying result should incite the authorities of other towns to endeavour to place the inhabitants beyond the reach of epidemic diseases. ” Then, again, in referring to the healthy condition of the city of Salisbury, where the death rate has been reduced from 28 per 1,000 living in 1841, to 10 per 1,000 living in 1867, he says that “ the healthiness of this city is mainly owing to the sanitary system now in operation, and not chiefly to advantages of situation . ” I have given you these quotations simply to show the reasonableness of the opinions enter tained by the Anti- Vaccinators when they affirm that the only means which we should employ to arrest the progress of zymotic diseases, and to divest them of their power, are measures which are placed within the reach of all, simple in their character, and harmless in their operation. There is no chatter about vaccination in the above paragraphs ; and smallpox, measles, scarlatina, and whooping cough, are placed in the same category, side by side, and one remedy recommended for all. This is in accordance with the teachings of philosophy, but when " vaccination " steps in it is " physic ." Quota " tions bearing out the broad idea that the improved health of the people depends upon the completeness of our sanitary regulations are scattered throughout the whole book , and could be multiplied to any extent ; but the fact needs so little pressing that two or three illus trations are as good as a thousand. When there is an outbreak of any epidemic, how easy it is, in nearly every case, to trace it up to its source, and put our finger on the plague-spot - bad drainage, impure water, accumulations of filth, crowded dwellings, or dirty habits of the people.    THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 9 In the fourth paragraph of your article, referring to the statistics of Dr. Seaton, showing how the mortality from smallpox has been reduced from 60,000 per annum in 1798, to 4,228 in 1865, you add : “ Here would seem to be a saving of 55,000 lives per annum , or more than half- a -million in the decade. This saving we cannot attribute to any other cause than vaccination. Let sympathetic adherents to Anti-Vaccination ponder these facts well, and hesitate ere they pursue further a course which, if generally adopted, would lead to an annual loss of English life worthy to represent the havoc which might be caused by a perpetual European war. ” Believe me, I bitterly regret to be under the necessity of dispelling this very pleasing dream ! It is a picture which, if only true, is drawn so neatly that I could revel in it as well as you ! Alas ! that this immense saving of human life should begin and end in a seem to be ; " but such is the fact. If you had only been as," diligent to enquire, with care, into the pros and cons” of this question as we have, whom you do not scruple to charge with carelessness and igno rance, you would not have committed yourself to a statement so far from the truth . I beg to refer you again to the Annual Report of the Registrar-General for 1867, and at p. 213, in the article by Dr. Wm . Farr, “ On the causes of Death in 1867,” you will find a reference to a treatise, published in 1813, by Dr. Robert Watt, of Glasgow , who is described as being “ a practitioner of great sagacity, and a philo sophical professor of medicine.” In that treatise, Dr. Watt describes his astonishment when he found that, notwithstanding the great decrease in the mortality of small -pox, there was a corresponding increase in the mortality of other diseases of the same type. Refer ring to the relative mortality of the principal diseases of children in Glasgow, Dr. Watt says : “ I began to reflect how different the case must be now ! In eight years little more than 600 had died of the smallpox ; whereas in 1784 the deaths by that disease alone amounted to 425, and in 1791 to 607 ; which, on both occasions, exceeded the fourth of the deaths of the whole year. To ascertain the real amount of the saving of this infantile life, I turned up one of the later years, and by accident that of 1808, when, to my utter astonishment, I found that still a half, or more than a half, perished before the tenth year of their age ! I could hardly believe the testi mony of my senses, and, therefore, began to turn up other years,, when > I found that in all of them the proportion was less than in 1808 ; but still, in taking an average of several years, it amounted to nearly the same thing as at any former period during the last thirty years. This was a discovery I by no means expected, and how it could have come to pass appeared to me inexplicable.” At p: 214, Dr. Farr, in  10 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. commenting on the wretched sanitary condition of Glasgow , says : “ And it is under unfavourable conditions of the same kind , although less in degree, that the mortality is now sustained in England, where, the town populations, constantly increasing, without equivalent arrangements for drainage, and for accommodation in dwellings, are every year exposed to increasing dangers." And again, at p. 215 : “ In 1858 and 1859 the deaths, from scarlatina and diphtheria together, were 30,317 and 29,494 ; in the two years, 1863–4, the deaths from the same causes rose to 36,982 and 35,164. The mor tality in 1858–9, from smallpox, had fallen to 3.35 and 1.97 annually, in 10,000 living ; while from scarlatina and diphtheria, the mortality had risen in the two years to 15 • 72 and 15.13. In 1863-4, the mortality from small -pox was 2.93 and 3.73, from scarlatina and diphtheria 18:18 and 17.08. While smallpox dwindled, these two zymotic diseases flourished, at the expense of the growing population.” In speaking further on this matter, Dr. Farr says, at p. 214 : “ The compulsory vaccination in England has reduced further the fatality of small -pox ; but since 1853, other diseases have so prevailed as to counterbalance the gain under this head. The mortality of children has not declined in a corresponding degree." And again, at p. 213, with respect to recent returns from Glasgow , Dr. Farr says :- These recent returns confirm the principle. smallpox is no longer so fatal as it was before vaccination was introduced ; in Glasgow it caused, in the year 1864, no longer 20, but 2 in 100 deaths ; only 180 in 6,054 deaths, that is 3 per cent. of the deaths under five years of age ; yet the mortality of children is certainly as high, probably higher, than it was in the last eighteen years of the last century.” Dr. Watt's enquiries extended over a period of thirty years, which he divided into five equal periods, of six years each ( 1783 to 1812) , 1 being fifteen years before and fifteen years after the introduction of Vaccination ; and he states that, whilst in the first period, 1783, the small - pox deaths amounted to 20 in 100, in 1812, when vaccination had been fairly established, the smallpox deaths were reduced to 4 in 100 ; and yet the mortality from zymotic diseases was main tained at the full maximum of 20 out of every 100 deaths. * And then * The following quotation is taken from a letter written by Dr. Pearce, of London, addressed to the editor of the Sunderland Herald of May 6th , 1870, and is in reply to a letter which appeared in that paper the previous week, by Dr. Seaton, on the subject of the diminished  smallpox  mortality and the present 1 death rate : “ The enforcement of vaccination ' commenced under an Act of Parliament passed in 1853. To this enforcement, urged on the boards of guardians by Dr. Seaton , he attributes a lessening of the death rate, the fact being that the death rate has increased ; indeed, the infant mortality (under five years of age)  ! THE VACCINATION QUESTION . 11 he adds that he “ does not see the smallest ground for the hypothesis that vaccination does positive harm by infusing some peccant . humour into the constitution . ” And, what is worse, not only does Dr. Farr not see it, but, in spite of Dr. Watts' and his own more recent investigations, which confirm and establish the same fact, that what we gain by a decrease in the mortality from smallpox ( even if that is to be attributed to vaccination) we lose by other similar diseases, Dr. Farr still extols the blessings of vaccination ! has increased from 8.78 to 9.19 per 1,000 of the population . Dr. Seaton would have the people believe that compulsory vaccination has diminished the mortality from small -pox. In his ' Handbook of Vaccination , called by Mr. Mordey Douglas a ' classical work of the highest authority ,' at p. 252, he says : 6 • The decline of  smallpox  mortality exhibits a regular progression, in corre spondence with the progress that has been made in the adoption of vaccination .' “ The following table is given to illustrate his assertion, furnished by Dr. Seaton to the Epidemiological Society, adopted by Mr. Simon in his . Papers on Vaccination, presented to the House of Commons, and reproduced in a con densed form in Dr. Seaton's Handbook : DIVISION 1. DIVISION 3. DIVISION 2. Before the enactment of any Vaccination Laws. Vaccination provided gratu itously , but not obligatory.Vaccination Obligatory. Deaths.Year.No. of Deaths.Year.No. of Year.No. of Deaths. 1838 1839 1840 16,268 9,131 10,434 1841 1842 1847 1848 1849 1850 1851 1852 1853 6,368 2,715 4,226 6,903 4,645 4,666 6,997 7,320 3,151 1854 1855 1856 1857 1858 1859 1860 1861 2,808 2,525 2,277 3,936 6,460 3,848 2,749 1,320 Average annual deaths ..... .11,914 ..5,221 ..3,240 " The foregoing table is very ingenious, but it is not honest. Dr. Seaton published his book eighteen months ago — the Registrar-General's reports up to 1865 were published long previously — but it did not suit Dr. Seaton's purpose and object to include all the returns. “ In the four years succeeding 1861, under the same Compulsory Vaccination Act, the average mortality was 5,421, a greater mortality, as will be seen , than in the years 1841 to 1853, before the first Compulsory Vaccination Act came into operation . It was passed in 1853, and came into operation in 1854. “ In the first column, Dr. Seaton includes only the three years of heaviest mortality of the present century, and this is done to sustain a foregone con clusion that compulsory vaccination has lessened the mortality. “ By such cooked accounts, Parliament, the profession , and the people, have been deceived, and it is high time that the reckless assertions of State-paid officials were exposed.” 12 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. You will, doubtless, meet my argument at this point by saying, “ True so far, but your facts and figures only refer to the mortality of children .” That is so, and our reply is that the same conditions " which would reduce or increase the mortality of children would, in a corresponding degree, show the same result among the adult popu lation ; nay, if your argument were true at all, that  smallpox  has effected a saving of 55,000 human beings per annum , the saving, if any, would manifest itself in the mortality of the children first of all, because they were the first to receive the boasted benefits of vacci nation. Facts, however, are against you . Because 55,000 of the people do not die annually of  smallpox , that is no conclusive evidence that they do not die from other causes. To' come down to times which are within the recollection of many of us, this principle can be tested by statistics which are easy of reference, and placed within the reach of all classes, and you will find that the inexorable law of “ vicarious mortality ” tells its tale in our favour. There is the grand law of compensation, a law which is seen uppermost in the arrange ment and distribution of the forces which regulate and govern all created things, and this law is seen ministering among those agencies which compass the death of the species, as well as in the conditions which surround their life. And we say that if our statistics were as perfect for 200 years back as they are for the last thirty years, you would see that the same conclusions would be confirmed . The compulsory vaccination laws came into operation in 1854, and you would naturally expect that there would be a continuous decrease in the mortality. What are the facts ? In 1858, 1861 , 1864, and 1867, the deaths from smallpox were 6,460, 1,320, 7,684, and 2,115 respectively. In looking at the tables in the appendix ,* the idea is forced upon us that the smallpox deaths are uninfluenced by  vaccination ( as a preventive), and that for “ small -pox " you might as well substitute " scarlatina, " “ whooping cough," or " cholera ." " Thus, Mr. Editor, I have endeavoured to show you, from the investigations of men of your own way of thinking as to the benefits of vaccination, that “ the saving of 55,000 human beings per annum , or more than half - a -million in the decade, ” is a fiction , and has no existence save in your own imagination ; and I can assure you that it is now a recognised truism that there are as many perish in the present day from diseases of the zymotic class as perished in the last century, when smallpox maintained a fatal supremacy . How * See Tables I., II. , III. , and IV. in the Appendix. These tables are extracted and compiled from the Report of the Registrar -General for 1867. The year 1867 is not remarkable for the predominance of any one epidemic, and is simply taken because it happened to be the last report at hand. 1 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 3 is this ? Well may we ask the question. It is a fact which, to the 2 Anti-Vaccinators, is proof enough that there is amongst us a mighty disturbing force which is interfering with the great law of cause and effect, so far as regards these preventible diseases, and which claims its annual heritage of woe and death from the people of this little sea -girt isle. We say that potent force is vaccination . We challenge you to disprove this assertion by assisting us to obtain a suspension of the vaccination laws for the space of three years, and you would then discover what a miserable subterfuge this vaccination is, and how infinite is the mischief which it accomplishes — that it is a wolf in sheep's clothing, a remedy worse than the disease. In the sixth paragraph of yourarticle, you exultingly ask : “ Where are now the troops of blind, deaf, and scrofulous, ” which followed in the " wake of smallpox, and which “ afforded incessant occupation to the faculty ?” Our reply is—the troops are still to be found ; they have only changed their uniform ; you have only to refer to the tables of the Registrar-General, under the heads, measles, scarlatina, diphtheria, croup, whooping-cough, typhus, phthisis, scrofula , bronchitis, and pneumonia, and bring to your recollection that several of the most fatal of these diseases were unknown before vaccination was intro duced. Vaccination is the best friend to the surgeon . Whether he knows it or not, it is no less true that, were it not for the disease induced by that operation, Othello's occupation would be well nigh gone. Did not the medical men oppose the substitution of vaccina tion for inoculation, until the latter was made penal by statute ? And if you wish to know a little more of their errors and fallacies, I a beg to refer you to an article in the Quarterly Review, for April, 1869. * All bodies of men are opposed to change, and rarely give up one mode of practice for another, until they are driven out of it. This mischief partly arises from the evil of giving to any one section of the profession a chartered monopoly and legislative protection. If a there were free trade in medicine, half the “ ills that flesh is heir to " would disappear in a single decade — this vaccination blunder first amongst the number. Like all thinkers, the reviewer in the Quarterly is given to the putting of hard questions ; he says, at p. 536 : “ Do we not all , simple and professional, dabble a little in the art of cure ? Do we not feel a curiosity to know on what grounds this or that drug, why a sometimes no discipline, sometimes severe discipline, is imposed upon * Art. 9. “ A System of Medicine. Edited by J. Russell Reynolds, M.D., London. Vol. I. , 1866 ; Vol. II. , 1868.” The review is a critique on this work . The work consists of about 108 essays, by thirty -seven authors. 14 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. us by our medical advisers? Do we not ask whether the whole thing be not a dramatic performance, got up to amuse, while we take our chance of life or death, or suspect it of being a hap -hazard handling of a two-edged sword ? Everyone professes a faith, or a want of faith in physic. Surely they must care to know what it is. In truth, it is an anxious question for patients, and also a serious one as respects the estimation in which the profession as a whole deserves to be held, whether medicine is walking hand in hand in progress with her sister arts of utility. ” The reviewer has for once hit the right nail on the head ; his questions open up the entire subject -- they lead us right into the maze, but unfortunately leave us there. In this matter, however, the critic has fulfilled his mission so far as he can ; he has faithfully repre sented the views, the doubts, and suspicions entertained by the more thoughtful portion of the community with regard to the question at issue. The accredited practice of medioine, or the voice of the faculty, according to the reviewer, seems to have its regular periods of incuba tion, and each of these processes appears to extend over a period of about thirty years. This, it must be allowed , is a rather long interval; but the process, although slow, is sure. Now , with respect to the rationale of vaccination , the reviewer, after digesting 108 original essays, says :- “ The beneficial results of vaccination used to be inter preted thus : it was supposed that the vaccine causes a fermentation in the body, by which there is effected the destruction of some substance previously capable of accepting the smallpox poison ; which, there fore, passes harmlessly through the person. Now - a -days, the pupil is told that the protecting virus unites with the supposed dangerous substance, and, by its presence, pre-occupies the place which might have been open to the smallpox . ” Did you know , Mr. Editor, that the beneficial results of vaccination rested upon two suppositions, one of which is now acknowledged to be untenable, and that in thirty years hence, when the next system of medicine will be due, the other not pause will most probably share the same fate ? Will you before you write another article in support of the practice of vaccination ? Is it not sad to contemplate that this institution, a building which thousands think is based upon a rock, should be found with its foundations on a quick - sand ? The truth of the whole thing lies in a nut- shell. This “ vaccination " charm has come down to us upon credit for seventy years past, and neither the people nor the profession have questioned its pretensions — it is an institution ; but, now that we are awaking out of sleep, is it a matter of surprise that we should quarrel with our own doubts ? For seventy years this giant upas  THE VACCINATION QUESTION . 15 axe tree has spread its poisoned branches over us, but at length the “ is laid to the root of the tree, " and it must fall, nothing now can save it. You have frequently written' lately on the sewage question, and have more than once referred to the excelling wisdom of the Chinese in the care which they exercise in returning to the soil that which is taken from it, reserving a saving clause as to the mode in which they do it. In the matter of the physician they show far greater wisdom than we in a land where civilisation has reached the zenith of its glory. The Ottoman pays his doctor when he is well for keeping him so ; we pay our doctor when we are ill for making us better . The Chinese gives his doctor a vested interest in health ; we give ours a vested interest in disease ; and, so long as this anomaly exists, so long will nostrums abound. Sweden follows the example of China, and benefits by oriental sagacity. Now , in the article referred to, it is clearly your opinion that “ vaccination ” is what it professes to be -a prophylactic against smallpox. We shall see how the facts bear out the assertion. The following figures show the number of patients admitted into the Small - Pox Hospital, London, from 1853 to 1866 : 1853 1854–6 1857 1858 1859-60... 1861 1862 ... 1863 1864 1865 1866 . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . 143 2321 212 368 2060 289 417 1536 830 1249 2069 In 1853 the Compulsory Vaccination Act came into operation ; and, to show how general Vaccination became, it needs only to be stated that in 1854 the Vaccinations exceeded the number of births in all England by 75,000. Out of the 2,069 cases admitted in 1866, 32 were suffering from other forms of disease than smallpox ; out of the 2,037 cases of smallpox, 1605 had been vaccinated , and 425 were unvaccinated. If vaccination were a prophylactic against smallpox, surely the figures ought, at least, to have been reversed . But, if Jenner's theory 16 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. were true, when he says, at p. 7 : “ What renders the cowpox virus so extremely singular is that the person who has been thus affected is for ever after secure from the infection of the  smallpox  ,” then there ought not to have been found a single patient in the hospital who had been vaccinated ; instead of which, 80 per cent. of all the patients had undergone the operation, and were protected ! In refer ring to these figures, the Lancet for Feb. 22, 1867, has this remark : “ Out of 2,069 patients admitted with smallpox, in the London smallPox Hospital, in 1865, no less than 20 per cent. had not been vaccinated .” What do you say Mr. Lancet, about the 80 per cent. who had been vaccinated ? and where was their protection ? And what say you on this point ? Is it not fatal to Jenner's theory ? We repeat the statement, and affirm that not a single patient should ever be seen within the walls of the hospital who on his arm bore the stigmata secure.” Here we range before you 1605 witnesses out of ( 6 the 2069 admissions to the hospital ! Whom do you believe ? whom do the people believe ? facts or Jenner ? It is stated, on authority, that in severe cases of smallpox ( variola corymbosa ) vaccination is no protection whatever. The following remarks by Dr. Marson , whom you quote, are taken from an article written by him, which appears in Dr. Russell Reynolds's “ System of Medicine," pp. 438 et seq .:- - “ Of 104 cases of corymbose smallpox admitted into the  smallpox  Hospital, 29 were registered “ un vaccinated ; ' 74 ' vaccinated ;' 1 after inoculation. Ofthe 29 unvaccinated 6 persons 13 died, or 44 per cent. Of the 74 vaccinated 32 died ; and deducting 2 who died of superadded disease, there remains a mortality a of 41 per cent." He further says that in this form of disease the danger is nearly as much in vaccinated as in unvaccinated persons, varying only about 3 per cent. " If vaccination is of so much value in ordinary cases, where is its protection in severe ones ? Is not the whole thing a delusion ? Do not these figures, in a remarkable manner, confirm what is said above, and strengthen our objections ? There is no escaping the conviction that vaccination is an imposition -an imposition which, when once fairly seen, will be swept away from off the face of the earth . In the fifth paragraph of your article you deny the allegation of the Anti-Vaccinators that other diseases, such as syphilis and scrofula, are transmitted by means of the vaccine lymph, and you give the names of three professional vaccinators, Marson, Leese, and Tomkins ; you then add the names of three professional men who have given great attention to syphilitic disease, Lee, Acton , and Langston Parker, all of whom support the opposite hypothesis. I shall restrain myself from producing evidence given by physicians who are Anti- Vacci  THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 17 tors, and will show you from the testimony of those who practise vaccination, that it is a fact that disease is communicable by the vaccine lymph. A Blue Book was published and presented to both Houses of Parliament, in 1857, entitled, “ Papers relating to the History and Practice of Vaccination, ” compiled by Mr. John Simon, Medical Officer to the General Board of Health. In that same Blue Book are recorded the answers of numerous members of the medical profession to a circular letter addressed to them, and the first part of question 3 is as follows : “ Have you any reason to believe or suspect that lymph from a true Jennerian vesicle has ever been a vehicle of a syphilitic, scrofulous, or other constitutional infection to the person vaccinated ? " Here are some of the answers : R. Y. ACKERLEY, Liverpool : “ I have no doubt that syphilis has been communicated from a diseased to a healthy child by means of vaccination, and also think it probable that scrofula may be. I have frequently seen erysipelas, diffuse inflammation, &c. , follow upon the operation . " " H. BAMBERGER, M.D., Wurzburg, Professor of Medicine in the University : “ I am , indeed, convinced that contagious disease syphilis, for instance — is communicable with the lymph in vaccina tion ; nay, such a case has even happened a short time ago in a town but a few miles distant from this place. After due enquiry into all the circumstances of the case, the practitioner was found guilty by the court of justice, and condemned to prison for several months.” G. H. BARLOW, M.D., Physician to Guy's Hospital, London : “ I have no certain proof that it is ever the vehicle of such infection, though I have suspected it in the case of syphilis. " J. R. BENNETT, M.D., Physician to St. Thomas' Hospital, London : “ I have suspected that syphilitic disease may be communi : cated by vaccination , and I would not willingly sanction vaccination from an unhealthy child, however perfect might be the Jennerian vesicle whence the lymph was derived . ” R. BICKERSTETH, F.R.C.S., Consulting Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, Liverpool: “ Yes . ” Sir HENRY COOPER, M.D. , Physician to the General Infirmary, Hull : “ I have some doubts on the point. I have frequently seen obstinate skin diseases follow vaccination , and, in a few cases, scrofula a and syphilis : these instances have not been sufficiently numerous to establish the relation of cause and effect.” G. M. M. Davis, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Northern Hospital, Liverpool : “ I think so ; and for thereason that I have seen mischief arise from vaccination from improper sources. ”  18 THE VACCINATION QUESTION . J. HUTCHINSON, Surgeon to the Metropolitan Free Hospital, London : “ I believe I have seen four or five cases in which local syphilitic affections were induced by vaccination, performed under ordinary circumstances, and by duly qualified men . ” » T. S. McCall, M.D., Greenock : “ I have every reason to believe that lymph taken from a party with hereditary disease conveys that disease with it." Dr. HAMERNIK, of Prague : " I regret that this question must be answered in the affirmative. Where vaccination is practised on a large scale, and where vaccinators have possibly an interest in multiplying operations, care and attention are no longer possible, and very sad accidents must more or less frequently occur.." Dr. Hamernik mentions a case where ten children were vaccinated from a little girl whose parents suffered from neglected syphilis, and the girl died in a few months, as well as five out of the ten who were vaccinated from her. * It would be very easy to multiply instances, but the above are enough for my present purpose. That there is considerable difference of opinion on this subject is admitted ; but we contend that, from the evidence adduced , supplemented by the still weightier testimony of members of the profession who are now declared Anti-Vaccinators, and from the corroborative evidence of uninterested persons with whom we come in contact every day, it would be almost criminal to shut our eyes to the fact that vaccination is a fruitful source of disease, misery, and death . We know so little of the wonderful * A notable case is reported in the Lancet for December 15th, 1866. The paragraph runs as follows : - “ Syphilis extensively propagated by vaccination in France. In a western department of France (Morbihan ), some villages have been the theatre of severe syphilitic symptoms, upon more than thirty children, who had all been vaccinated from a little girl with six punctures in each arm , the child herself having been operated upon from another who had been vacci. nated from lymph preserved between two plates of glass, obtained from the authorities. This misfortune created so much sensation that the Academy of Medicine, of Paris, sent down two commissioners, Messieurs Henry Rogers and De Paul. These gentlemen have just presented their report to the Academy, and this important document ends with the following considerations- - 1. Several of the children whom we have examined were undoubtedly suffering from secondary syphilis. 2. We see no way of explaining this contamination but by vaccination , and we are confident that the cases we have seen were really syphilis engendered by vaccination . 3. As to the origin of the virus, it is very probable that the poison is traceable to the lymph preserved between the pieces of glass supplied by the authorities.' As primary symptoms were also observed among the children, M. Ricord begged the commissioners to insert that fact in their report, which these gentlemen agreed to do. Here we have, unfortunately, again repeated the sad occurrences which took place at Rivalta ( Italy ), a short time ago .” THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 19 susceptibilities of these zymotic poisons, and of their amazing powers of development, that no thoughtful man will doubt that the point charged with “ virus” from the vaccine vesicle may have concealed upon it a seed - atom of another disease, which, sooner or later, may develop itself, and produce a disease in the person vaccinated , which may make even life itself a burden . Dr. Farr gives a quotation from a work by C. Darwin , M.A., F.R.S. , on “ Animals and Plants under a Domestication ," vol. ii., pp. 368 to 378, where the following sentence occurs : “ It has recently been ascertained that a minute portion of the mucous discharge from an animal affected with rinderpest, if placed in the blood of a healthy ox, increases so fast that in a short time the whole mass of blood, weighing many pounds, is infected , and every small particle of that blood contains enough poison to give, within less than forty- eight hours, the disease to another animal. ” All poisons of this description appear to be invested with an indefinite power of reproduction when placed under favourable conditions. The Anti- Vaccinators may be excused, therefore, for believing that vaccina tion is a sin against the Creator, and a crime against humanity , when the vaccinator burglariously invades the healthy organism of a God sent child, and dares to insert into its life - blood the scrofulous poison taken from the diseased heels of a horse suffering from “ the grease .” It does not require any knowledge of the laws of science to guide the people in condemning this practice when they are told from what source the vaccine matter is obtained. There is an attempt in some quarters to hide the fact as to the origin of the vaccine lymph, and to this you have contributed your mite. In the fifth paragraph of your article on this subject, you speak of " cow -pox ” as being “ the fruit of vaccination in the human subject.” No greater error was ever promulgated. There is no such disease as “ cow -pox ” separate and " apart from the grease" in the horse, hence the proper term should be “ equination, ” and not “ vaccination . ” Dr. Jenner must decide this question. In page 2 of his immortal work , * “ An Enquiry into the Causes and Effects of the Variolæ Vaccinæ ,” &c. (immortal, in my opinion, for its amazing stupidity ), you will find this passage: " There *A contemporary of Jenner's, in a pamphlet written in opposition to  vaccination , thus alludes to him : “ Had he but seriously reflected upon the specific nature of cowpox virus, and endeavoured to trace the grease of the horse, whence it sprang, up to its origin, previously to engaging in so momentous a concern , it would have required but a small share of ability to have predicted the dreadful consequences that have since ensued, and I am sorry to have the opportunity of showing that the result of the industry which he has shown in ingrafting an unknown disease into the human constitution , neither merits private regard nor public approbation ." - Observations Addressed to the Public on Cow - Pox, Showing that it Originates in Scrofula, &c . ” By Dr. Squirrel, London . B 20 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. is a disease to which the horse, from its state of domestication, is frequently subject. The farriers have termed it the grease. It is an inflammation and swelling of the heel, accompanied at its commence. ment with small cracks or fissures, from which issues a limpid fluid, possessing properties of a very peculiar kind. This fluid seems capable of generating a disease in the human body (after it has undergone the modification I shall presently speak of), which bears so strong a resemblance to the smallpox, that I think it highly probable it may be the source of that disease.” The modification he alludes to is that comprised in passing the matter from a horse, first of all, through a cow, and then into the human subject. This is no process of modification at all, but merely a disguise to make the vaccine virus more palatable in the idea of its coming through the medium of the cow . The atoms, or gemmules, or biads, or whatever they may be called, which constitute the poison of the smallpox, scrofula, tuberculosis, or the “ grease " in the horse, are each separate and distinct in them selves, and undergo no change or modification in their chemical elements by being passed through the medium of a cow or a human subject; this Dr. Farr affirms when he says : “ Each disease has its peculiar germinal matter . " In confirmation of Jenner's conviction that the “ grease' was ܐܙ the source of the vaccine, it may not be out of place to say that, whatever modern physicians may affirm as to the cowpox being a natural form of disease, Jenner's idea is reproduced and acknowledged by contemporaneous historians on the subject of vaccination. Thus Dr. Moore, in his " History of Vaccination, ” p. 15, in summing up the observations which led Jenner to the discovery of 1798, and which has given to his name a questionable notoriety, says : “ In observing the occurrences of various farms, he also remarked that the cows remained free from the vaccine as long as the horses were in health ; but acquired that complaint very soon after the horses were attacked with the “ grease . This coincidence took place so " * often that he became persuaded of the virus from the “ grease of the horse being the source of the vaccine in the cow . ” " You must excuse my pertinacity in correcting the statement that the source of vaccine is the cow. At the time when Jenner wrote, the horses in the farms were but ill attended to, the stables were seldom cleansed, there was little or no ventilation, the water which they drank from the pond was charged with all sorts of impurities, and they had often to stand for day and night in the * In Baron's Life of Jenner, vol. I. , p. 135 , the following incident is given : “ His nephew, George Jenner, went into the stable with him to look at a horse with diseased heels. There, ' said he, pointing to the horse's heels, “ is the source 6 of smallpox .””  THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 21 stable up to the fetlocks in liquid filth -- no wonder that they should have “ the grease." But it is amazing how any man in his senses should ever dream of passing the “ limpid fluid” from the disease in the horse into the veins of a beautiful child , and more amazing still to reflect that a single man in the Queen's dominions can be found to perpetuate such a frightful mistake. At p. 219 of the Registrar General's Report for 1867, Dr. Farr has this paragraph : “ The primary object to aim at is placing a healthy stock of men in conditions of air, water, warmth, food , dwelling, and work most favourable to their development. The vigour of their own life is the best security men have against the invasion of their organisation by low corpuscular forms of life — for such the propagating matters of zymotic diseases may be held to be."” Dr. Farr, when writing as a doctor, is favourable to vaccination ;; but when he writes as a philoso pher, his arguments go dead against it. The above quotation is an instance, for I venture to assert that, range creation through, it would be impossible to find a form of “ corpuscular life” so low as that which exhibits itself in the heel of the horse in the grease ; and I believe, with Dr. Farr, that the best security which we have against the invasion of disease of any form or type is “ the vigour of our own life, ” and, on that very hypothesis, we shall resist the disease of vaccina tion as an interference with the wise ordination of a beneficent Creator. In the paragraph which I have quoted above from Dr. Jenner, it is clear that he was impressed with the idea that the “ grease ” in the horse was not only the source of vaccine in the cow, but also the source of smallpox in man. The latter conclusion is so utterly O preposterous that it calls for no attempt at refutation, and is a deplorable instance showing how such men as he, when they leavə the plain and simple dictates of reason, encumber themselves with contradictions and inconsistencies. Now, if Jenner had lived in these days, he would have lived to see his sources both of vaccine and smallpox clean gone— absolutely extinct ; for such a thing as " grease " 9 in the horse is scarcely to be met with , that animal, “ in its state of domestication " in these days, having profited so largely in health by the care, diet, and cleanliness bestowed upon it. The absence of this disease is not to be attributed to any such absurd dognia as vaccina tion ! In this respect, the horse is far more mercifully treated than his master, and he may, in some degree, thank his stars that he carries about with him an empty purse ! Dr. Farr says, p. 221 in his Report for 1867 before referred to, “ As zymotic diseases of domestic animals are governed by the same general laws as the corre sponding diseases of men, similar methods of prevention should be pursued in dealing with live stock . ” Certainly, Dr. Farr, vaccinate  22 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. them all at once ! In speaking to an eminent veterinary surgeon in the town a short time back , I enquired , “ What would you say if you found your groom inoculating a healthy horse with the grease virus of a diseased one, so that he might give the animal the disease ' in a mild form ,' and so prevent him taking it casually ? ” “ Say ? " a 7 said he, “ I should not say, I should do ; I should kick him out of the stable.” What should be done to him who equinates a child with the 2 66 * grease virus ” ? * Let us cast this accursed thing outside the camp. “ The blood is the life, ” but how soon is the active principle of death ” forced upon it—when life is but three months old ! The 66 “ callus of bones" is said to be endowed with the properties of life , and Hunter demonstrated the fact that the blood is a vital, “ living fluid ," and that all morbid poisons, those which produce the specific diseases of smallpox , syphilis, scrofula, &c. , are in direct antagonism to the healthy principles of life. The Anti- Vaccinists go a step further, they place the specific disease induced by “ the vaccine ) virus” in the same category, and it will take you a long time to show the unreasonableness of their conclusions. However, the task is now before you. Again, we prefer  smallpox  to vaccination, and, as a matter of choice, of two evils, we should take the former, and in this we do no injustice to our neighbour. Vaccination we will not have, and we will take every reasonable precaution to protect ourselves from the invasion of smallpox and other zymotic diseases ; this is the truest philosophy. On the other hand, you say we will have the “ blessed ” vaccine virus, pure, sweet, and “ limpid ,” from the diseased heels of a " brute, and we will nurse this “ elixir vitoe ” in our life's blood, although it is proved to be no protection against small -pox ; and, whilst you believe in it, we do not object. If you are " protected ,” you are safe, no harm can come to you by reason of our being unpro tected—why compel us to be vaccinated against our own solemn convictions ? But we will not be compelled. We had nothing to do with making the law , and we will resist it. The compalsory  vaccination laws were carried by a section of the medical faculty, " at dead of night ” - (fittest time indeed !) — and in almost an empty house ; and if the medical profession will not help us, at any rate to get rid of the compulsory clauses in these laws, then we shall make this a * It is said that the “ grease ” in the horse is an evidence of there being active lung disease in the animal, and that the terrible mortality from diseases of the chest in the human subject is partly accounted for on that hypothesis. The Report of the Registrar -General shows that nearly one in every four deaths in England are referable to chest diseases under the heads of “ Phthisis," “ Bronchitis ," " Pneumonia ," and " Whooping- cough .” » 66 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 23 personal question, and the profession will find, as the promoters of the Contagious Diseases Acts have discovered , that the voice of the country will soon be arrayed against them. ; Under such circum stances, who is to yield is only a question of time. Our hatred to “ vaccination " is so well grounded, and is so uncompromising, that no considerations either of friendship or kinship would lead us to relinquish the further agitation of the subject. At present, we hold no quarrel with men, but with a system which embraces a practice so abhorrent to our judgment. The Boards of Guardians urged on by the Medical Department of the Privy Council may prosecute and persecute, the Lancet may denounce the movement, and call upon the “ provincial press," as it has on one famous occasion, to aid it in unholy war; but the Anti- Vaccinators can afford to stand in this 66 גל their trenches, and bide their opportunity for a well-directed assault, a knowing that as soon as they meet their opponents face to face, in the broad light of day, though the conflict may be severe, it will be short and decisive. Truth must prevail in the end. The contest between the vaccinators and their opponents is not one maintained by two sections of medical practitioners ; it began with the people, and the people will see the struggle to the bitter end. The action of the Leeds Board of Guardians, by selecting three practitioners who are herbalists against whom to direct their prose cutions, have thus sought to establish a connection of the kind indi cated . So far as I am personally concerned, the question rests upon its own merits. In 1853-4, I assisted Mr. John Gibbs, then of St. Leonards, and Dr. Horace Johnson, of Brighton, a Hydropathic physician, in obtaining signatures to petitions praying for a repeal of the Vaccination Laws. The great majority of the members of the League are just as free from party considerations. Vaccination is more or less opposed by all sections of medical practitioners, save those who are subsidised for carrying the laws into operation. This is a singular feature in the case. There is another view of this controversy to which I shall refer, and that is, with regard to the statement by Dr. Seaton which you give, and where, in speaking of the mortality from  smallpox , he says that “ nearly one-tenth part of all the persons who died in London during the last half of the last century died of this one cause” .  smallpox . So they did, Dr. Seaton ; but who is to blame for that ? Was the visitation of smallpox from 1750 to 1800 attributable solely to natural causes ? You know better than that, but it would spoil your argument to say so . And yet why cannot you be honest ? If there are causes which contributed to swell the mortality, if even the medical men of the times were to blame, pray let us know it. 24 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. Now , during the period referred to, inoculation was practised — that practice which is now “ felony.”  smallpox  inoculation consisted in taking the " virus" from a smallpox vesicle and inserting it in the arm of a healthy subject; thus the physicians and others kept a sort of manufactory for the production and support of “  smallpox  infection .” Let us just hear what Dr. Moore—a writer who is held to be an authority both by Dr. Seaton and Mr. Simon, and by all the vaccinators of the day — advances on this phase of the question. In his “ History of smallpox,” p. 232, Dr. Moore, in speaking of the early triumphs of inoculation by Dr. Mead, says, “ This success encouraged Mr. Maitland to inoculate some others, by the event of which it appeared that the inoculated  smallpox  was sometimes severe, and he was amazed to find that the artificial disease was as infectious as the casual. This was a circumstance totally unexpected ; and it ought to have induced the profession to pause ere they proceeded , or at least to have prompted them never to inoculate without adequate measures being adopted to prevent the infection spreading to others. The neglect of this easy precaution has occasioned the loss of millions of lives. ” And again, at p. 242, in referring to the fact that inoculated  smallpox  was equally as infectious as the casual, he writes— “ Dr. Wagstaffe exemplified this by a late occurrence in the city of Hertford, where, in consequence of a few inoculations, the smallpox had spread through the town and occasioned a prodigious mortality ." And, lastly, Dr. Moore states that a charity was estab lished in London, where the poor might be inoculated , and remain there, isolated , until they were cured : but, he adds, at p. 250, “ Un happily the wise regulations of the humane founders of this charity were afterwards entirely altered ; when all who applied at the gates of the hospital were promiscuously inoculated with the small -pox, and suffered to wander abroad, diffusing far and wide the mortal infec tion .” And now let me ask, if in face of facts like these, involving the loss of " millions of lives, ” which were caused by the ignorance, carelessness, or selfishness of the medical profession — for all these expressions are made use of by Dr. Moore — is it fair to base any calculations upon the mortality of the last half of the last century, and to put it before us as if the visitation of  smallpox  were one in the order of Providence, or in the ordinary course of events ? There is no period in the history of medicine which is so astoundingly humiliating as is that connected with the history of smallpox inocu lation . No wonder that Dr. Seaton should wish to conceal such facts as those which are recorded by Dr. Moore, and introduced above. His deductions are based upon false premises, and into this “ trap for the unwary u " you have fallen aa victim. THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 25 Our neighbours across the Channel committed the same dreadful mistake in practising  smallpox  inoculation . At p. 283, Dr. Moore states that : “ In the year 1763, the small -pox proving epidemic at Paris, occasioned an unusual and dreadful devastation. From the evidence collected, that Court became convinced that it was owing to the increased infection from inoculation ; and , therefore, issued a decree, prohibiting the practice in Paris.”” I think, on the whole, you will agree with me in saying that Anti-Vaccinators have some show of reason for distrusting the doctors in the present day in con nection with vaccination, when they recall the frightful havoc which they caused for nearly a century, in connection with small -pox inocu lation . We entertain as great an objection to one practice as to the other — they are both bad, and ought to be discountenanced. * 1722 to 1798 smallpox inoculation was practised , and it could be said throughout the length and breadth of this land, as it was said in the memorable night when the destroying angel passed throughout the land of Egypt, “ There was not one house in which there was not one dead,” so universal was the devastation caused by smallpox inocu lation . And, with respect to the evils attending vaccination , there is scarcely a house in the land without its tradition of disease and death more or less recent. To ascertain the depth and extent of this feeling, it is necessary to mix up with the people in their homes, and you would soon discover that the array of instances of sufferers from the after effects of vaccination is not nearly so “ paltry ” as you describe. The Anti- Vaccinators feel that the injunction—“ Do thyself no harm ,” is as applicable to the vaccinator, with his lancet tipped with poison, as it was to the Philippian jailer, who, in a paroxysm of despair, essayed to destroy himself with his own sword. They prefer to meet the pestilence when it comes, and in whatever shape, face to face; and, in its absence, to employ such remedial and preventive measures as science, intelligence, and common sense suggest. There is no need to dilate at any great length on another feature which you introduce. You say : " It is amusing to hear the assertion that our medical men support vaccination because they are gainers by it. " Perhaps it would be equally amusing to be told that they objected to the innovations of inoculation and vaccination, too, at one time, on that self- same ground ; and yet it is now matter of history. But, let me ask you, do you suppose that the doctors are not as opposed to change, and as much alive to their own business interests, as any other section of the community ? It was only the other day that a paragraph appeared in the newspapers to the effect that the physicians and surgeons to an hospital in one of the Midland * It is asserted that some surgeons still practise inoculation . 26 THE VACCINATION QUESTION . Counties threatened to resign in a body, if a resolution to establish an Homepathic ward was not withdrawn, and the recalcitrant com mittee-man obeyed. Is it not clear that professional status and private interests are of far greater weight than considerations of public health ? Then, again, with regard to the remedial agency of the Turkish bath, although members of high standing in the profes sion speak of it, in certain cases, as of “ infinite value, " yet it is not adopted by the faculty. And, lastly, I would ask you if you have formed any idea of the income derived from this horrible  vaccination  business ? It is estimated, by those who are in a position to form a correct opinion on the subject, that, directly, the cost of  vaccination to the country amounts to more than £150,000 per annum ; and that the fair money value, indirectly, by private vaccination, and by the disease induced by vaccination, is not less than three million pounds per annum—some say considerably more than that. * One-half the children that are born in the land die before they reach their tenth year! What! can it be true ? The days of the years of our pilgrimage are “ threescore years and ten ,” but exactly one-half of the children born to us are robbed of the “ threescore years" 9 ) and perish at the “ ten .” The land is filled with human blood, but at whose hands God shall one day require it, is a question to which I should not like to suggest an answer. The annual sacrifices which Prescott tells us took place in Mexico under Montezuma pale into insignificance before a statement like this ; and that there must be somewhere some frightful interference with the ordinary course of nature, some direct disturbance of the healthy conditions of life, is a fact which cannot be denied or controverted. We may talk of crime, poverty, pauperism , and of all their attendant evils, such as irregu . larity of life, intemperance, insufficient food, crowded dwellings, and neglected homes, and so we may go on adding evil to evil, and mis chief to mischief, but all combined are insufficient to account for this terrible mortality. There is a destroying angel desolating our homes, * A United States physician , in writing to a London newspaper, a few weeks ago, has the following remarks:— “ Your medical supporters of vaccination have never yet answered this simple question : Why should not pure blood free from decayed animal matter, bodily cleanliness, temperance , wholesome food , be a better protection against all disease, small -pox among the rest, than the introduc tion of an ulcerous discharge into the system of a healthy child ? I may claim the credit of being one of the pioneers of the Anti- Vaccination movement. We disseminate our faith in pure air and water, temperance, cleanliness, and a general observance of nature's laws, as the best protection against disease, and this is construed by an interested profession as an attempt on our part to bring back small -pox to the country ; and thousands suffer themselves to be thus hood winked.” THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 27 and demanding his tribute of death at every door ; we see him not, nor do we hear his footfall, but day by day he pursues his work of destruction, and the annual blue book records how busy he has been the nursling at its mother's breast, the prattling child gambolling on the lawn, the little girl who was the life of the house, the merry boy with his trundling hoop, and the scholar at his daily task, are now All that is left is a huge sorrow , which casts its shadow upon the after - life of those who survive. no more . a Here a word or two with regard to the bill of mortality as pre sented in the Annual Report of the Registrar- General. Can you look at this tabulated record of death without a suspicion that we are, in 1 some form or other, assisting in the work of our own destruction ? This remark applies more forcibly with regard to the mortality among children. Death claims at our hands 471,075 persons annually, a number equal to the entire population of two such towns as Leeds, and of these one -half die before reaching their tenth year. With regard to the adult population, we know that intemperance, crime, poverty, and other unhealthy conditions which obtain among them , swell the death rate to an appreciable extent ; but with respect to the deaths of 235,537 persons under ten years of age, the mind recoils from the consideration that this sacrifice cannot be satisfactorily ac counted for save by the suggestion that we voluntarily contribute to this appalling mortality. In the presence of such a fact as this, we throw statistics and opinions of the faculty aside altogether, and examine this vaccination question on its own merits. We need no science, no logical acumen , no college education, to decide on such a subject -- common sense is equal to the task, and this is a level on which the workman at the forge, the mechanic at his machinery, the weaver in his shed, and the labourer in the field , claim to rank on equal terms. What is this “ vaccine virus " ? It is an animal poison ; and yet we introduce this into the “ living blood ” of a healthy child . We fear the visit of the physician, who, in his daily round of duties, attends his fever patients, reflecting that he may bring the contagion into our houses ; nay, so scrupulous are we, that for the world we would not touch the skirt of his garments, lest we should contract the dreaded infection ; and yet, like the unthinking horse which rushes into the battle, we hesitate not to inoculate our offspring with mortal poison. If we were told that such a practice obtained among the Indians on the banks of the Missouri, or the savages of Central Africa, we could understand it ; but that it should be found in England, a land of liberty, freedom , and civilisation, and practised under the sacred name of science, is an inconsistency without parallel ! There are other points in your article which are quite as far 28 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. from the truth as any that have been touched upon. The statement that the cow -pox vesicle produces cow - pox , " and that only,” is a state ment which has been disproved in these pages. To talk of experi ments by foreign physicians establishing your theory is perfectly absurd, when living examples can be produced to prove the converse : we have no faith in experiments which are opposed to practice. We will undertake to send you “ living specimens," and verify our cases by the evidence of “ living medical practitioners." Did you ever see or hear an opinion given by a physician — even when that opinion supported your views—without observing the one fear which was present in his mind, and which betrayed itself in such terms as these—“ Great care should be taken by the physician to see that the children from whom he obtains his supplies are healthy, and that no > hereditary disease exists in the parents” ! Why be careful when there is no danger ? Why be cautious when the virus from the cow- pox vesicle produces cow -pox " and that only " ? There is not a physician or a surgeon in the country whose actions, if not his words, are not proof demonstrative in favour of the theory we hold. Unfortunately, however, the truth of our cause lies too near our homes, where vaccination has left the “ hideous traces of its power” upon the child, and turned “ the babe into a changeling at which the mother shuddered .” And these instances are neither few nor far between. It is not among the children of the rich, where money can ensure care, and health can resist disease, but among the poor where the worst examples of such mishaps are to be met with . The Anti-Vaccinators affirm , and with no small show of reason , that, if it be true (and true it undoubtedly is) the vaccine lymph carries with it the seeds of hereditary disease existing in the patient from whom the vaccine virus is taken, whether scrofula, bronchitis, syphilis, tuberculosis, or any other of the grim sisterhood of diseases, then we say that we have found a cause equal to the production of the excessive mortality of which we justly comp As to the argument referring to the immunity from infection enjoyed by the nurses at the smallPox Hospital, there is nothing in that. Jenner found that a blacksmith could neither be inoculated nor vaccinated — his blood, coursing like a river in its bed, licked up the virus as the thirsty soil licks up an April shower - and, to all appearance , was neither better nor worse for the operation. So it is with the nurse, otherwise she would be very unfit for her post infection finds no encouragement in that direction. It is a poor argument; but in a famine it does not do to waste a crumb ! So far as the law itself is concerned, we know that our respected stipendiary magistrate must administer its provisions without regard  THE VACCINATION QUESTION. 29 to individual objections, and we acknowledge the fairness which has distinguished him in the observations which he has made when called upon to punish a recusant parent with fines and imprisonment.* But the remarks in which you indulge in the last paragraph of your article are as curious as they are novel. Supposing, then, that you 66 are a vaccinator" of the true Jennerian type, you believe that the “ virus ” from the “ grease” in the horse is at the same time the source of, and " a simple and gratuitous preventative ”" against  smallpox ,, and you really and conscientiously believe that we deserve to be > classed amongst those who are punished for “ violently ill-using, or starving, or slaying, their children . ” Well, be it so . Time, which frequently introduces us to “ strange bed -fellows,” brings about its own reconciliations, so far as matters of opinion, and matters of practice too , are concerned . But on this subject, perhaps, you will favour us with your views on the following quotation. The writer was cotemporary with Jenner, and no mean authority, and his disser tation was not published to influence public opinion on the vaccina tion controversy. “ Any extraneous substance introduced into the blood modifies the vitalised or living fluid . The introduction by inoculation of mineral poisons, or vegetable poisons, is hazardous, and, in certain quantities, may be destructive ; but the introduction of animal products from another living body, be it a man, a cow, or even the ass, is infinitely more pernicious, because allied to it in being vitalised .” May I ask , Who is it that is guilty of “ violently ill-using and slaying his children ” —who is it that " stores nitro -glycerine in > his kitchen " ---the Anti- Vaccinator, who abjures the grease virus, " 66 with all its fearful consequences, or the vaccinator, who compasses the destruction of his race by poisoning the “ living principle " of his children's blood ? The tables in the Appendix are commended to your careful study. An hour's thought over those four pages, and the facts which they reveal, will not be time mis- spent. A candid perusal of the tables, condensed and summarised as they are, will establish the conviction #“ MARYLEBONE . — COMPULSORY VACCINATION.- Mr. W. T. Jones, a medical practitioner, of Caversham Road, was summoned by the St. Pancras Board of Guardians for non- compliance with the Vaccination Act. Mr. Richards appeared for the Guardians. —The defendant, when ordered to comply with the Act, and have his child vaccinated, said if the Guardians would give him a written guarantee against skin disease and other ill consequences, he would comply with their directions. — This the Guardians declined . - Mr. Knox thought the father was the most proper person to judge as to vaccination . — Defendant handed in a certificate from a medical man , and said he acted under schedule B of the act of 1867.- Mr. Knox, having read the certificate, dismissed the summons. " - Daily Telegraph, Jan. 7th , 1869. 30 THE VACCINATION QUESTION. that " vaccination ” has no more influence over the death -rate from " small. " than it has over the death -rate from any other disease of l.pox ” the same order. The same alternations are seen in connection with all the zymotic diseases, and that when one disease is epidemic, there is a corresponding decrease in the death- rate from other diseases of that class. We believe that vaccination is a distinct and decided disease per se, and that it has its own special sins to answer for ; but to form an estimate of the mischief which it achieves, we must wait a few years longer. The same ingenuity which is now directed in а compiling tables and statistics to sustain a practice which is as opposed to experience and common sense as it is to the clearest teachings of science will one day employ its skill in consigning Jenner to the contempt and forgetfulness of future ages. All that we ask you to do, Mr. Editor, is to assist us with your powerful pen to get an inquiry, under Royal Commission, into the whole subject, so that we can obtain the opinions of men of all sections of the profession - whether Allopaths, Homeopaths, Hydropaths, or Herbalists, none must be excluded. You have committed yourself to an opinion in your article, and there must be no going back ; you have launched your bark on the great sea of human thought and life; and we lay it as a burden upon you either to show that we are wrong, or, failing that, to assist us to obtain the inquiry. The Anti-Vacci nators number in England alone about 100,000 registered members, and that is an organisation of no despisable proportions; and depend upon it that the widespread feeling antagonistic to the continued practice of Vaccination , shared in by the still deeper convictions of the vast masses of the working classes on the same side, will grow and strengthen day by day, and will at length assert their supremacy and secure the object they have in view . Delay, however, is dangerous, -dangerous, indeed, when human lives are in one scale and interest in the other. If there be a doubt on this great subject, are we not entitled to the benefit of it, and will you not assist us with your ready help ? From the establishment of the Leeds Mercury to the present day it has stood foremost in the van of progress, and in the North of England there has been no agency, no educator, so potent for good as the pages of your journal; and, in committing this subject to your consideration, I am satisfied that no question now before the public mind can compare with it either in interest or importance. I am , Sir, Your obedient servant, JOHN PICKERING. SPRINGFIELD MOUNT, LEEDS, June 15th , 1870. APPENDIX . TABLE I. ANNUAL RATE OF MORTALITY OF MALES AND FEMALES IN ENGLAND, 1838–67. (Extracted from the Report of the Registrar -General, p. 13.) DEATHS. DEATHS OF OF EQUAL NUMBERS LIVING , THE NUMBER OF MALE DEATHS TO YEARS. OF MALES TO 1,000 MALES LIVING. OF FEMALES TO 1,000 FEMALES LIVING . MALES TO 100 DEATHS OF FEMALES. EVERY 100 DEATHS OF FEMALES. 1838 1839 1840 1841 1842 1843 1844 1845 1816 1847 1848 1849 1850 1851 1852 1853 1854 1855 1856 1857 1858 1859 1860 1861 1862 1863 1864 1865 1866 1867 Average of 30 23:12 22.77 23.72 22:38 22:39 21.99 22:38 21.66 23.90 25.41 23.87 25.78 21:42 22:76 23:24 23.83 24:41 23:51 21:36 22:57 23.90 23:27 22:18 22-68 22:49 24:24 25:14 24.77 24.96 23:40 21:46 20.97 22:04 20.83 20-98 20.47 20.83 20.11 22:21 23.80 22:24 24:45 20:13 21.24 21:55 21.97 22.67 21.74 19.69 21.07 22:33 21:55 20:34 20.63, 20:49 21.93 22.64 22:08 22:34 20.65 105 104 103 103 102 103 103 103 103 103 103 101 102 103 103 104 103 104 104 102 102 103 104 104 104 105 105 106 105 106 109 109 108 107 107 107 107 108 108 107 107 105 106 107 108 108 108 108 108 107 107 108 109 110 110 111 111 112 112 113 years, 1838-67 }23:38 21:51 104 108 The Table may be read thus : In the year 1838 to every 1,000 males living there were 23.42 deaths of males ; to every 1,000 females living there were 21:46 deaths of females ; and to every 100 females who died there were 105 deaths of males. The last column shows the relative mortality of males and females ; and that out of equal numbers living the deaths of males were 109 to every 100 deaths of females in 1838. [ This Table showsthe average mortality of Males and Females in England " of all ages." - J. P.] T 32 9 3 8 , 6 5 2 7 2 4 2 3 0 4 , , , 3 n 2 5 1 o N 71 1 2 1 8 l d 6 7 7 4 4 D 8 2 1 4 0 3 4 0 9 6 i 275 5 5 7 0 4 0 0 1 4 4 3 7 as E S 5 8 3 4 5 4 0 5 3 1 7 8 1 1 3 7 0 8 5 9 0 3 1 5 11 t 1 91 3 5 3 0 p 95 . upwds and 7 9 8 7 9 2 0 2 5 8 9 8 2 7 7 5 S 1 6 l :::::::: vivi :: Ha , , s h N ,1 , 5 6 0 7 3 , 1 , 4 1 1 5 7 9 2 3 8 9 9 , 6 0 3 a e 4 6 2 3 S R 1 2 1 5 3 7 1 1 9 5 6 0 8 0 1 0 1 9 1 , 6 2 2 5 1 3 0 3 0 0 0 3 9 h i p i 3 1 , 9 E 042,,5 4,, , 7 3 , . 2 3 , , , 1 7, l 5 6 D , 5, , , , 3 1 , 9 ec H 5 1124 265 8 1 8 1 4 3 r y t w c 81 2 (151233 5 e A EE 0 2 1 4715 3161 2 +2|15 4 1 2 1 4 9 1 1 1 4 5 4 |7 1 3 8 )1 3 5 1 |4 2 7 6 3 7 2 p f L u s n o O R T L S F I E E A A 7 G U F R F 5 . . . 0 2 1 6 3 1 6 6 6 5 5 9 9 1 3 7 5 24 1 9 , 0 4 , 3 6 4 2 1 2 3 6 2 2 1 1 9 7 5 2 6 1 2 1 : : ని లు 2 0 0 1 3 8 8 3 2 3 0 1 7 8 1 1 6 3 2 8 3 1 2 6 18 2 6 4 5 4 9 2 5 7 , 0 8 5 e e a o a i d e e e m B p I u l i f e h h n h n o w A o a f f r a r I e h o [T I .a c t s •c o p ”w d p b a o -h o t s 6 E E H N T A I F E I N 8 . L P D A D O C I T , Y 1 E 8 0 8 0 3 9 1 7 3 6 0 6 6 9 . 6 1 5 0 5 5 3 ܠܕܢܢ ܙ 2 5 2 1 3 6 4 0 5 2 8 9 8 1 9 0 2 8 1 3 0 4 8 4 9 7 3 8 , 8 1 5 2 7 3 5 0 2 1 : 20 2 8 7 0 1 8 3 0 9 2 7 2 3 3 8 4 7 0 4 8 6 9 1 0 8 0 0 1 3 8 8 2 4 1 1 5 9 1 3 9 6 4 1 2 . 1 1 8 9 9 5 2 2 7 3 0 8 7 7 2 1 , 0 5 , 0 9 8 7 0 , 8 8 1 1 26 6 9 27 2 0 0 2 9 87 82 0 6 5 3 3 2 29 513 0, 8 9016 1 50 62 1 73 9 4 8 ] 2 8 , . 6 0 1 ,, ,, , 3 3 , 7 1 , 8 6 8 4 1 , 3 0 2 , 9 2 , 7 5 , 5 3 4 2 17 5 1 2 1 9 0 2 173 61 21 94 57 1 1 3-1 162 5 ,1 5,, , . 6674 1 13126181 12 522|21 6 1 1 2 2 4 2 | 3 1 7 6 3 4 8 |1 )2 7 7 5 6 5 5 5 1 5 8 2 8 3 +1 1 |1 1 1 7 4 , 2 3 4 8 0 5 8 4 0 0 2 5 6 0 2 7 0 2 0 7 3 , , , 2 1 5 1 1 4 /4 6 6 6 1 . . . 8 9 7 2 3 2 1 8 1 24 5 5 2 1 65235131 E L B A I . I T r s d 5 a ' e r 2 l t l t a 1 r i s r – o m p i e 2 e p m g n o p 2 e o e e h r ) t (C R f ,p .1 -G R H T S A E E T G . A D 4 5 3 5 2 0 2 5 1 0 1 2 4 1 3 0 1 6 2 1 3 8 9 1 6 3 7 5 5 7 3 1 0 9 1 2 5 6 , , 2 7 1 2 6 2 1 2 | 7 . 3 3 2 3 7 9 1 4 8 1 1 7 5 8 , 6 , 0 9 6 0 3 1 0 1 8 , , 4 1 1 2 3 4 |1 8 3 1 1 5 0 7 5 1 1 4 2 6 5 1 1 3 8 1 5 , 3 1 4 3 2 2 5 8 3 1 1 7 7 7 7 7 3 8 4 8 5 0 8 7 3 1 , , 0 2 9 |1 4 3 4 7 1 9 6 3 9 2 7 8 5 7 1 4 1 1 3 4 + 9 4 8 , , 8 6 3 r or 3 5237 , 5 l e a d t n o u T s r a e . Y 9 3 3 , 3) 1 22723|1 5 4 3 2 r 1 l e r a d t a 3 0 3 , 3 1 9 5 2 8 4 0 1 , , 1 9 2 5 1 6 1 1 8 1 9 4 6 2 7 2 6 , 7 1 | 1 . J h - r r . t i e n a e e . g e e h f h of nu e . Y 1 7 tPyao] t L L A S E G . A 83,4 a c s y S H E T S A U E A F . O D C a g n i h p o g i r e t s n e e b s ulahpec s n o y t h i p l o i d r b n t e a a A D i i a r n e i h t s o u a h o l W C e a e o a e . T M a ordy s i n i s t o l i u m s t p s h v u l e a l h i h s r s l a i H s c n n e la l r p a sy r u i r l e of i o o C n x s i r a i o h r P . .c h . l mo . -p.S aeM D . S . p u o r C E i . p . D y T h o p h y S C rcS the B 33 c s d i t ne s n a t o d e t d a ei r y c y a e e u v e d i s s e as m at 5 9 3 i r t b l t r h f t s t f d e o 2 7 li d e i o l s 7 3 2 1 8 3 8 h i e r e e s s i e c e i d r i s l r b u er e t s e n h r r 0 8 s er ts e s n 3 7 1 1 s s e t a t 0 6 2 5 1 7 1 r e r h 9 8 0 8 ts t a r e s y a t t e a t 5 vr n 7 0 0 8 3 0 3 3 1 d c r p o o s i m t d e h u r e s t a e e a e m a u g d c e p n t a , , 1 8 7 8 4 2 as t gs n d a d t n e f e s e a 8 5 8 9 2 a s m g i y e j a e e e o h t a 6 1 2 5 0 3 3 8 4 , 9 , 8 0 , , , , u s n s w a a i e o f h r e e n f i t f l e o h s h o n a n n e e a o i d a y g a c r o a h o f e s r s 5 6 , 6 y a h h h . t a a n n f a r i t h , 0 “" f my D [Iimortt“obDn"*a a c e r t h n 7 6 , , , , 6 , 2 , , 5 , 6 , 2 1 c a C d ,”ita“C v ftbt e r e c s i o h r h t i i a f n f s s h 8 4 4 2 , 2 4 9 1 1 1 9 2 5 6 4 2 7 “c i t ,r ”i c t m o c ,a t i s ,a d ;a e o 3 2 . i “s a T a r t b l a o d o m t f w d i t h u o ,d t o r d p e 1 D 6 1 2 9 1 1 1 : 1 4 1 s e l c c e d m r e o t e i y e e t e d u d d e e m e a d r g b a j j a g a a h h n a n e n t r e e s h b b h o f o . i s o b m o s .T t m i u t ,"a g ] u .”—JP t h f D u a "A 7 5 4 8 4 5 4 8 1 E 0 9 0 6 0 1 7 2 1 3 9 5 6 8 8 5 0 7 3 6 1 , 1 6 2 7 0 7 3 1 0 6 7 3 4 7 3 0 1 R D , 0 6 9 , 7 , 1 , 9 6 4 3 , , , , , 6 E 7 2 0 0 , 1 , 0, 1, 5 , 6 , 4 , 1 , , , , 5 7 1 1 5 N 8 9 0 1 7 1 1 2 6 5 :3 7 2 3 2 S 5 3 1 3 5 1 2 1 4 6 T H A S 8 E S 1 H T L R S I - E N A G 1 4 9 9 1 8 C A8 UG 0 0 1 0 5 1 1 1 3 4 2 2 9 1 5 2 7 7 8 2 2 8 5 9 0 3 1 3 3 6 E N A E H A F F E N 8 . D E E C O Y T O I 1 T R 5 6 8 1 ,0 94 ,284 14,6 65,8 7,71 41,4 29,5 46,8 69,1 3 0 5 9 , , 2 3 3 , 2 2 1 16,1 69,2 96,6 7,35 76,7 7,62 4,63 4,22 1,23 1 2 2 9 3 3 0 7 6 3 1 6 2 0 4 5 7 3 4 4 0 0 0 1 4 0 8 6 7 4 , , 4 2 07 6 7 1 0 4 5 1 1 0 0 3 9 3 4 0 5 7 8 3 4 7 7 , , 4 5 1 9 , 7 , , , 681 9 8 4 4 7 4 6,7 ,8 ,92 ,5 1 5 , 0 , , 6 2 2 8 61 39 ,1 ,3 ,5 35 ,7 62 83 , 4 9 2 2 3 9 3 7 1 5 8 78 5 5 7 1 2 7 7 8 3 4 4 7 1 6 6 8 2 r d s 3 , , 7 3 5 0 7 0 9 7 7 7 0 1 9 6 4 2 8 0 0 0 1 as ' 3 5 , , 0 9 2 , , , 7 2 8 1 , , , r t t l 6 7 0 9 1 5 , 9 8 1 4 3 0 , , , 5 1 , 0 , , 1 2 6 8 t c a 3 , 4 4 1 3 6 6 1 1 1 1 , 8 3 5 , 5 8 2 3 r s a r o - i m r e p e 1 g t n o p e 3 e x h e r ) (f t - .2 ,p E R G R 1 6 0 5 1 2 7 2 4 1 2 6 6 7 6 0 3 2 3 2 3 5 0 7 2 5 6 3 8 1 2 2 0 8 3 7 7 1 6 9 2 7 1 , , 8 0 6 2 3 5 0 6 2 0 2 , 1 4 1 1 0 , , 7 6 9 8 , 9 6 5 2 4 2 0 , , 6 , 8 , 1 0 5 , 8 3 2 , 4 , , , , , , , 2 7 E , 2 1 1 5 5 2 3 4 1 9 1 1 5 1 1 3 5 7 3 2 L B I A 1 4 0 + 6 1 9 1 1 3 2 1 4 I 3 6 0 7 7 7 5 7 7 2 3 6 4 9 1 0 0 2 4 2 8 1 . I T 1 6 1 ,7 2 5 7 1 9 3 3 , 4 1 7 4 7 7 1 54 9 9, 7 4 9 6 , 2 9 , , , 2 3 0 0 5 , 5 , , 3 , 6 1 , , 9 81 53 4 ,1 ,9 ,9 ,4 2 4 1 ,1 5 8 1 1 8 ,1 3 ,5 5 5 0 7 2 3 2 2 2 4 1 0 4 5 1 2 6 7 7 1 0 5 2 2 7 0 2 0 7 6 0 0 6 8 1 0 , , 2 4 2 1 4 4 1 6 9 5 4 5 7 , , 9 2 86,9 2 8 1 3 2 , , 1 5 5 1 5 6 0 5 6 , , , 3 8 1 1 07,9 0 7 0 2 , 3 1 0 8 6 6 8 , , 2 4 0,15 21,7 02 , 52 13 ,2 3 2 ,5 2 39 ,6 2 8 8 7 7 1 7 9 4 4 0 7 6 4 9 5 9 9 1 9 7 4 0 8 8 9 8 6 78 33 8 9 2 4 2 59 9 5 99 5 , , 0 2 4 4 5 8 ,9 5, 3 7 6 9 , 59 ,5 ,8 7 0 8 , 9, 89 1, 2, ,5 ,5 ,1 ,7 81 4 3 4 4 6 2 , , 9 3 1 9 , 5 8 ,1 1 1 8 1 2 ,4 05 7 2 2 2 2 7 3 8 6 5 2 1 8 8 3 2 7 3 0 8 6 9 , 0 13 4 0 6 6 8 58 4 6 1 8 3 4 4 4 9 81 0 5 , 9 0 64 7 , 2 22 , 20 ,7 , 3 0 0 7 00 0 6 , 1 , 0, , 8, 81 4 4 4 4 ,6 , 0 9 3 , 6 $ 11 ,2 1 31 6 ,1 ,3 ,5 0 , 5 7 52 92 62 02 S H E T S A U E A F . D O C D E S F E I S C a g n i p a c i r e t s n e e b s s u l a h s p n e o c y y t h i p l o i d r b n t e a a A D U E A P S C S E S L i a r n e i h t t s l o s g o a u l h o e : W -c p a æ h a e T M a s o r d y s isluv s i i n t o i m h u c U l a i r a i l i H n LA l e h l p s s r r l u s o n e AC l x a r u y a e i f i *C o n a i s m o r h h l h o r . P c D p - a p i E p t r p o B S e S u * D y c h M orC yT h S C S P 34 TABLE IV . CAUSES OF DEATH IN ENGLAND IN THE YEAR 1867, ARRANGED IN THE ORDER OF MORTALITY. d d d ( Extracted from the Thirtieth Report of the Registrar -General, p. 240. ) e e e r r s r s e s e e h t r t s i e a g b e e D r m u t h r s t i e a g b e e D r m u f t h r s t i e a g e b e r D m CAUSES OF DEATH. f o N r 7 e a 6 n h e 8 . i t Y 1 CAUSES OF DEATH . No r 7 a e 6 e h 8 n . Y t i 1 CAUSES OF DEATH . u f N o r 7 e a 6 e h n 8 . t i Y 1 Phthisis | 55,042 || Nephria 2,203 | Gout........ Bronchitis 40,373 || Syphilis 1,698 | Intemperance Atrophy & Debility 32,317 || Joint Disease, &c. 1,672 || Delirium Tremens Old Age 28,646 | Peritonitis 1,571 Skin 377 374 369 362 Convulsions.. 26,258 | Jaundice 1,493 || Other Violent Heart Disease. 21,689 || Erysipelas 1,450 Deaths (not Pneumonia 21,118 | Want of Breast classed) 299 Diarrhea . 19,851 1,437 Milk Intussusception Typhus..... 16,862 || Suffocation (AC Poison (Accident) . 296 281 Scarlatina 12,300 cident)1,352 Stricture of In- ) 278 Whooping-cough ... 11,873 | Mortification 1,329 testines Paralysis 10,810 | Hepatitis 1,319 | Cut, Stab (Suicide) 268 Apoplexy 10,406 | Laryngitis 1,285 Ovarian Dropsy Premature Birth ... 8,990 Ileus... 1,179 || Carbuncle 247 235 Cancer 8,515 || Thrush. 1,163 Drowning (Suicide) 228 201 201 7,095 | Otherwise (Acci:} 1,116 Dropsy Stone Hydrocephalus 7,041 Quinsy Tabes Mesenterica 6,882 || Uterus Disease, & c. 1,069 Stricture of Ure Fracture and Con Metria 1,066 thra 6,596 tusion (Accident) Dysentery 962 Noma Measles 6,588 Ulceration of In Worms 928 Brain Disease, & c . 5,671 testines Otherwise( Suicide) 197 174 172 140 Liver Disease, & c.. 5,532 Hernia 927 Poison (Suicide) ... Lung Disease, & c. 4,793 | Cholera.. 922 || Gunshot(Accident) 135 124 Croup 4,387 Pleurisy 855 | Ague .... 121 Teeth 4,300 || Gastritis 742 Paramenia 115 Cephalitis 4,220 || Ascites 724 || Privation 109 Asthma ..... 3,748 | Diabetes 680 || Ischuria 106 Sudden Deaths Insanity 640 || Other Zymotic / 105 ( Causes unas- 3,506 Influenza . 607 Diseases 103 certained) " Pericarditis 592 || Cut, Stab (Accident) StomachDisease, Other Malforma Fistula . 100 2,948 &c. .... tions 504 Spleen Disease, & c. 93 Scrofula 2,938 | Aneurism ... 503 | Remittent Fever ... Kidney Disease , & c. 2,920 | Hanging (Suicide) 488 || Arthritis Enteritis 2,858 Cyanosis 481 Gunshot wounds 86 75 57 Drowning(Accid'nt) 2,676 Purpura & Scurvy 471 (Suicide) Burns and Scalds Ulcer 443 11 Chorea 2,600 (Accident) Nephritis . 442 || Pancreas Disease . } 50 18 Diphtheria 2,600 | Phlegmon 430 | Hanging (Exe smallpox 2,513 | Murder & Man. cution) 11 Childbirth 2,346 slaughter 392 Hydrophobia 10 Epilepsy 2,312 | Spina Bifida 391 || Glanders 4 Rheumatism 2,256 Cystitis...... 381 .......... NOTE ,—The causes of 4,630 deaths were not specified. In calculating the propor tional numbers they have been distributed pro ratâ over all the causes in the Table. [ Total Deaths, 471,075. Males, 242,588 ; Females, 228,487. ] APPENDIX. 35 PROTEST AGAINST THE COMPULSORY VACCINATION LAWS. * “ We, the undersigned, do hereby record our solemn and deliberate protest against the compulsory vaccination laws, and solicit their immediate and unconditional repeal : . “ ( 1.) Because they are tyrannical and unconstitutional, depriving parents of their sacred and legitimate rights of control and protection over their offspring. ' ( 2. ) Because they emanate from a narrow medical school, which, in face of the dissent of a considerable body of enlightened and experienced medical men, and of a large portion of the intelligence of the community, has prevailed on Parliament to enforce its unnatural and irrational nostrum for smallpox upon the nation at large.( 3.) Because vaccination is an outrage upon all the known laws 66 of health and physiology, inasmuch as it not only prescribes the infusion of corrupt and venomous matter — the product of disease into a healthy organism ( even the so -called ' pure lymph ' from the 6 cow being simply animal corruption ), but also effects this by a burglarious assault and entrance through the protecting tissues ; whereas all wholesome nutriment and medicaments have their prescribed channels of entrance by absorption through the skin, lungs, or digestive organs. “ ( 4.) Because vaccination is no defence against smallpox, as is proved, first, by the statistics which show that more than three- fourths of the patients recently admitted to certain smallpox hospitals have been “ successfully ” vaccinated ; and, secondly, by the admission that unless the infused virus be speedily and vigorously expelled by the invaded organism , vaccination is not considered successful — that is, the alleged prophylactic, when harboured in the system , is avowedly powerless. Moreover, it has been shown, on high authority, > that cow - pox and smallpox can run, and have run, their course simultaneously in the same patient. “ (5.) Because vaccination has been indisputably proved to be a means of conveying foul and loathsome disease far more to be dreaded than smallpox itself ; and because even cases of death, as the direct consequence of vaccination, are of no uncommon occurrence. “ (6.) Because it is cruelly unjust even to fine ever so lightly, much more to fine repeatedly and imprison, parents for refusing to * The above protest was drawn up, and signatures obtained thereto, by the Rev. Wm. Hume- Rothery, of Middleton , Manchester. c 36 APPENDIX subject their children to the deadly risks of vaccination, which has actually been done in several cases, even when the recusant parent had previously lost one child — or more than one — from the direct effects of this unclean and unnatural practice. ( 7. ) Because the only efficient prophylactic against disease, whether smallpox, cholera, fever, &c . , is to be found in enlightened and faithful compliance with the laws of life and health , which these compulsory vaccination laws— by teaching people to trust in vaccination , and leading them to believe that they may nourish with impunity the real causes of smallpox - set utterly and daringly at defiance.” J. CLARK JERVOISE, Bart. , J.P., Idsworth, Hants. R. C. HICKSON, J.P., County of Kerry. HY. BARRETT, M.A., J.P., Vicar of Pelton, Durham. W. ALEX. AYTON, Vicar of Edingale, Tamworth . LE COUTEUR BELLEINE, M.A., Rector of St Mary's, Jersey. CHAS. W. LANE, Lieut.-Gen ., C.B. , St. Brelade's, Jersey. ARTHUR TREVELYAN, J.P., East Lothian . JAMES HOUGHTON, J.P., Dublin . ALEX . MUNROE, M.D., Melrose. JOHN SKELTON, Sen., M.D., Plymouth. WM. FORBES LAURIE, M.D., Dunstable. JOHN PRATT, M.R.C.S., Durham . FRANCIS W. NEWMAN, Emeritus Professor, Clifton . JNO. SKELTON, M.R.C.S., London. GEO. SEXTON, M.D., London. JNO. SMEDLEY, Matlock . J.J. GARTH WILKINSON, M.D., &c. , London. HY. CLINTON, Col. , Earlsbury Park, Herts. WM. J. COLLINS, M.D., M.R.C.S., &c. , London. JOHN GIBBS, St. Brelade's, Jersey. RICHD. BAITES, M.K.C.S., London. A. BORMAN, M.R.C.S., Derby. FERDINAND DUPRE, M.D., Manchester. GEO. S. GIBBS, Darlington. WM. HUME -ROTHERY, Clergyman, Middleton, Manchester. S. MORISON, M.D., Clapham , London. D. M'CONNELL REED, M.D., London. CHAS. T. PEARCE, M.D., London. THOS. LOW NICHOLS, M.D., Great Malvern . D. TURNBULL, M.D., &c . , Cheltenham . HENRY PITMAN, Manchester. WM. MANSER, Chairman of Board of Guardians, Isle of Thanet. H. MANTON, Alderman, Birmingham . H. (COMTESSE) DE NOAILLES, Meads, Eastbourne. ALF. HAVILAND , M.R.C.S., London. AUGUSTA SALINA (The Hon. Mrs.) FOLEY, Ashleigh, Isle of Wight. RICHD. B. GIBBS, London, Hon. Sec. A.C.V.L. [ Here follow other names.] APPENDIX. 37 [ Copy of the Article referred to in the preceding pages, extracted from the “ LEEDS MERCURY” of Saturday, June 11th, 1870.] VACCINATION. The terrible panic at present existing in Paris, as the result of an outbreak of smallpox, may serve as a timely hint to the English opponents of vaccination. Loud is now the cry of our Anti-Vaccina tors, and numerous are their petitions to the Legislature against the Compulsory Vaccination Act. Only the other day one sent from Leeds, and signed by 1,900 persons, was presented by Mr. Baines in the House of Commons. But it is a cry raised in the absence of the calamity which vaccination has removed. The act which is now exciting so much resistance was passed in 1867, with the object of rendering the vaccination of young children compulsory throughout England and Wales. Its opponents may be divided into two classes . The first consists of those who have been convinced by the arguments of Dr. Blanc, Professor Newman, and others, on some or all of the following points : —That vaccination is becoming less and less effectual asa preventive of smallpox: ; that it is, moreover , an active propagator of various constitutional diseases ; and that compulsion in a matter of this kind is an undue interference with the rights of the subject. We suspect, however, that the second division of the opponents is far more numerous than the first, for it consists of a section of that class who, not being diligent to inquire with care into the pros and cons of public questions, are disposed to give their support to men rather than to measures. Nor can it be a matter of surprise that the pluck and patient endurance of legal penalties, which have recently marked the course of the more consistent members of the party, should have attracted the generous sympathy of many such recruits. But let our readers look at the two following pictures. The first of them is drawn by Macaulay, and has reference to the illness which proved fatal to Mary, Queen of our William III. He says : “ That disease was then the most terrible of all the ministers of death . The havoc of the plague had been far more rapid , but the plague had visited our shores only once or twice within living memory; and the smallpox was always present, filling the churchyards with corpses, tormenting with constant fears all whom it had not yet stricken , leaving on those whose lives it spared the hideous traces of its power, turning the babe into a changeling at which the mother shuddered , and making the eyes and cheeks of the betrothed maiden objects of horror to the lover . " Dr. Seaton, Medical Inspector to the Privy Council, paints for us the second picture in his “ Handbook of Vaccination ," published in " 1868, where he gives the following particulars, which may enable our  38 APPENDIX. readers to form some conception of the ravages caused by this disease during the period immediately antecedent to the introduction of vaccination : “ In England ,” he says, “ according to the calculation of Dr. Lettsom , the average annual deaths from it were about 3,000 out of every million of the popu lation ; a death -rate which , with the present population of the kingdom , would give an average of considerably more than sixty-thousand deaths from smallpox a-year. Nearly one- tenth part of all the persons who died in London, within the bills of mortality, during the last half of last century died of this one cause. The mutilations it caused, when it did not slay, were so frequent and so considerable, that we have on record that, at the period of which we are speaking, two- thirds of the applicants for relief at the Hospital for the Indigent Blind owed their loss of sight to  smallpox  ; and we need but refer to the writings of physicians of that time to see how frequently it was followed by deafness, and, in constitutions disposed to scrofula, by glandular swellings, obstinate ulcerations, and other 1 ) evidences of the development of that disease . " Such were the dreadful doings of small -pox when Jenner published his great discovery in 1798. And, now that for many years its value has been generally acknowledged, and that, public gratuitous vaccina tion having been provided, it has become the rule that English children should be vaccinated, let us return to the same districts described by Macaulay and Dr. Seaton, and mark the changes in the scene. Looking at the mortality due to  smallpox  in London in the last century, we have seen that the proportion of deaths ascribed to this cause was one out of every ten that occurred . The proportion in the ten years 1851-60 was but one in every hundred . Again, had our population continued as unprotected as formerly, we might have expected to number now in England 60,000 deaths per annum from small -pox. During the ten years ending with the close of 1865, the annual average number was only 4,228. Here would seem to be a saving of 55,000 lives per annum , or more than half a million in the a decade. This saving we can attribute to no other cause than vaccina tion. Let sympathetic adherents to Anti- Vaccination ponder these facts well, and hesitate ere they pursue further a course which, if generally adopted, would lead to an annual loss of English life worthy to represent the havoc which might be caused by a perpetual European war. Let us look, however, for the reasons given for repealing the Act. First in order comes the assertion of Dr. Blanc that vaccination is becoming of comparatively little value as a protective. It will take с the Doctor some time to get over the figures we have quoted, and we can further meet him at this point by showing that, whatever (much or little) may be the protective power of recent vaccination, the pro tection would appear to have increased in proportion to the extent to which the practice has been adopted. What less can be gathered from  APPENDIX. 39 the following : -Out of every million of the population the average annual number of deaths from smallpox previous to the introduction of vaccination was 3,000 ; the average between 1838 and 1840, when vaccination had become widely diffused, was 770 ; the average between 1841 and 1853, when vaccination was gratuitous but not obligatory, was 304 ; and that between 1854-63, during which vaccination was to a certain extent obligatory, was 171. When the facts are such as these it is difficult to reject the conclusion that broad assertions of vaccinal failures are little better than traps for the unwary. At the same time, it must be admitted that increased care on the part of certain members of the medical profession is much to be desired , and a second vaccination at the period of adolescence is proved to be of considerable value. Indeed, so effectual has this double vaccination proved that for thirty years it has afforded a com plete protection to all the officers of the London smallPox Hospital. The second objection to vaccination is one upon which much stress is usually laid, and is most serious in its character. It alleges that constitutional diseases are conveyed to the subjects of vaccina tion by means of the vaccine lymph which has passed to them from the arms of previous patients ; and, foremost among the diseases sup posed to be thus carried is that most repulsive one termed constitu tional syphilis. But here are the names of three able medical men who have all their lives been professional vaccinators, Marson, Leese, and Tomkins ; and to them we may add the names of three more, who have spent their lives in the treatment of syphilitic disease, namely, Lee, Acton, and Langston Parker, and all the six declare that they have never met with a case of syphilis which originated in this way. What reply can be made to such evidence ? The result of it will appear more natural to those who consider that cow - pox, the fruit of vaccination in the human subject, and syphilis, are two dis tinct diseases, each of them producing vesicles, such as those seen on the arm of a vaccinated person, but that between the vesicles of the one disease and the vesicles of the other there is a wide difference ; that it has been shown that the matter from a cowpox vesicle pro duces cowpox and that only, while the matter from a syphilitic vesicle produces syphilis and syphilis only. This has been proved by foreign physicians at a cost of human suffering which cannot but call for the severest reprobation, and which our English medical profession will be the first to condemn. We are quite aware that cases of infantile syphilis have from time to time been attributed to vaccina tion, but we have yet to hear of the instance in which , under critical examination, the imputation has been maintained . Undoubtedly, symptoms of this disease frequently declare themselves after vaccina  40 APPENDIX. tion, but this may fairly be ascribed to the fact that, in unvaccinated as well as vaccinated children, they usually appear at a period subse quent to that at which vaccination is commonly performed. But even if, for argument's sake, we were to admit as proved every alleged case of this kind, we should find but a paltry array of instances of sufferers from vaccination , to set against those who formerly suffered from the after effects of smallpox. It is amusing to hear the assertion that our medical men support vaccination because they are gainers by it. Without counting the profits derived by practitioners in olden times from attendance on the subjects of this malady itself, where are now the troops of blind, deaf, and scrofulous, who followed in its train , and afforded incessant occupation to the faculty ? We come, lastly, to notice the objection which rings with a more popular sound than either of the foregoing, and declares that the vaccination law is an infringement of private rights. “ May a man not exercise his own judgment in dealing with his own child ? ” Such, in effect, is the question asked. The law , however, already imposes many limitations on this freedom ; and, so often as men exercise their judgment by violently ill-using, or starving, or slaying their children , every one is glad that the authorities should step in to punish the offenders. What sanitary law can be maintained, if it be once admitted that one section of society ( that composed of parents) is at liberty to subject another section ( that composed of children ) to perils of disease and destruction , by refusing them the benefit of a simple and gratuitous preventive, which is within the reach of all ? He who shall insist on the right of the subject to store nitro- glycerine in his kitchen can show quite as good a case as the Anti-Vaccinator who demands the privilege of breeding a pestilence in our midst. RITI. 27 JA90 USEUM NOTICES OF THE PRESS, &c . VACCINATION : A LETTER IN REPLY TO AN ARTICLE IN THE LEEDS MERCURY. “ This sixpenny pamphlet, by Mr. John Pickering, is one which firstly commends itself to the reviewer by the excellence of its printing and general “ get up," and secondly by the terseness of its diction , the force of its arguments, and the value of its information. It has an appendix , in which is quoted the article to which the pamphlet is a reply ; and such is the respondent's comprehensive grasp which he exhibits in the treatment of the subject, that we have rarely seen a newspaper article more sturdily yet respectfully refuted. The sophistries of the pro - vaccinators reproduced in part by the Leeds Mercury, are here entirely demolished ; and we could wish that if only for the sake of truth and fair dealing, Mr. Pickering's letter might be read by the Million . " - St. Leonards and Hastings Gazette, August 6, 1870. “ Mr. Pickering's being the last work of the kind, ought to be the best ; and it is honest, sober-headed, and full, leaving nothing to be desiderated. It is a com plete and overwhelming answer to the article in the Leeds Mercury — an article displaying some verbal ability, but destitute of rational insight. One of the argu ments constantly put forward in defence of vaccination, is —that since its intro duction  smallpox  has decreased in frequency and virulence. Mr. Pickering shows the worthlessness of this plea, which indeed must be upset in the mind of any sound thinker the moment he takes into account the sanitary improvements which have been effected in the country since the time when smallpox was indeed a destroying pestilence. That vaccination is not the cause of any diminution in the power of small -pox to blight and kill, Mr. Pickering demonstrates by the statistical tables he has inserted , from which it may be seen that in spite of vaccination,  smallpox  has had its ebbs and flows; whereas had vaccination been destructive to small. pox, the latter would have gradually dwindled away. We most cordially commend Mr. Pickering's pamphlet to the earnest attention of all who are really desirous of mastering the vaccination question . " -- The Co-operator, July 30, 1870. “ I am very much pleased with your letter to the Mercury. It covers the ground well, and should carry conviction to its readers. ” —R. B. GIBBS, Hon. Sec. Anti- Vaccination League. London, July, 1870. “ I beg to thank you for a copy of your pamphlet on · Vaccination . I am loth to constitute myself a critic of its value, actual or relative, generally or particularly , 6 and for the reason that there can be no doubt about its value in all the facts with which it deals. I have always a dread that ' anti -vaccinators ' will ' prove too much .' > As an anti-compulsory vaccinator, it is not incumbent on me to prove anything, and it is proverbially difficult to prove a negative. The onus probandi rests with those who make and enforce this objectionable law . ” — SIR JERVOISE CLARKE JERVOISE, Idsworth, Horndean ; late M.P. for South Hants. July, 1870. “ I beg to tender you my best thanks for your pamphlet, which I have just read. With all due respect to others, your work is the best of the kind I have met with. NOTICES OF THE PRESS, ETC. Your language is remarkably calm and clear ; whilst there is nothing to offend any one, your arguments are strong and clenching. The tables you have given are most valuable . ” — Rev . WM. HUME-ROTHERY, Middleton , Manchester. July, 1870. “ It appears to me that your pamphlet is ably argued , and I feel convinced it is irrefutable. But it is not because of the statistics that I so believe, but because of the unquestionable certitudes of universally received physiology. The medical sup porters of vaccination reason solely from statistics, which may be made specially to support anything, when they address the uninformed ; and they have not a particle of good sense, or common sense, on the broad principles of which we all can judge as well as they. " - F . W. NEWMAN, Emeritus Professor , Clifton , Bristol. Feb., 1871. “ The case against compulsory vaccination has never been so strongly put as by you , and unless answered by facts, and not by opinions, the question may be con sidered as decided. Every one who knows anything of public health questions will agree in your views as to the practical unity of epidemics, and their determining causes, and that exemption from all alike must be sought not by any one thing, such as vaccination , but by enquiring into and removing the causes of epidemic suscepti bility generally. The pamphlet is a very able one, and is in want of a complete answer . Who will do it ? " - FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE, London . March 31, 1871. AGRITIS 27JA90 EDWARD BAINES AND SONS, PRINTERS, LEEDS.