THE Vaccination Act of 1867 is about to be amended by Parliament : In what manner should it be amended ? or, should legislation meddle at all with the question of vaccination ? These are important points of controversy which call for temperate discussion. Public opinions and popular beliefs are not always infallible ; but Legislators are often obliged to be guided by them. Such is the case, at the present time, with regard to Vaccination as a definite, if not a popular belief. Who are the guides of the Middle Classes who form opinions on Vaccination ? Are they not the members of the Medical Profession ? Are they safer guides in therapeutics than the members of the Clerical Profession in theology? We do not think so: and regret that Parliament should- meddle with Vaccination. . Would it be tolerated that Parliament should force every man and woman not only to believe in theological creeds and dogmas, but to submit to being forced to learn by heart such creeds and dogmas, and periodically to repeat them in some definite manner ? Certainly not; however much orthodox clergymen might insist, with more or less unanimity, on the moral necessity of such a “prophylactic to protect the spiritual health of the community from the infection of immoral habits, the thing would not be tolerated. Why then should medical men have more authority by law for inflicting Compulsory Vaccination on the public, in conformity with medical opinion unsupported by any positive science, than clergymen in controverted questions of theology We do not find fault with Parliament for legislative interference at the present time, because it is sometimes necessary to deal with ignorant panies, as well as with real wants; and we are inclined to believe that the fears of many people, alarmed and misled by medical authority, may be allayed by Compulsory Vaccination, as long as it is generally supposed that effective Vaccination 1s sufficient to protect the body from the virus of smallpox. For similar reasons ecclesiastical authorities have in all ages encouraged a superstitious belief in amulets and charms of various kinds, to ward off dangers from the bodies and the souls of the faithful. Even now the Pope of Rome sends forth tiny brass medals which he blesses papally, as infallible prophylactics against all risks of moral or physical calamity. (Unbelievers might perhaps prefer a few grains of camphor carried in a pocket.) From this point of view, we may understand Compulsory Vaccination as a legislative measure, but surely an English Parliament should be more Bright-witted than antiquated ecclesiastical authorities, and try to enlighten the public by discussion, rather than encourage any kind of superstition, medical or theological. Is the medical theory of Vaccination sound or unsound? That is the main question: for although medical fanatics say it has been already decided by long experience of the good effects of Vaccination, and the owners of property in filthy rookeries are glad to welcome such a theory to divert public attention from the real causes of infection, there is no real proof that Vaccination is of any use, while proof abundant shows that filthy and overcrowded neighbourhoods harbour and perpetuate epidemic infections. Is Vaccination of any real use as a prophylactic? That is the question. What then, are the known facts, in contrast with mere suppositions ? It is very well known that having had the smallpox once, at any age from infancy onward, is not really a preventive, since it not unfrequently happens that persons who have had the smallpox, B 4 more or less severely, have it a second time, with equal or increased virulence. It is also known that children who have been most carefully vaccinated, may be infected by smallpox and die of the disease. —A case of this sort is given in the Lancet of January 14, 1871 :—A case reported “by the Registrar of the Mile-End Old Town, Eastern sub-district, shows how great is the need for extremest vigilance on the part of individuals who may have occasion to change their residence in London, at this juncture. AÅ surgeon’s daughter having died from smallpox, the Registrar ascertained that the child had been vaccinated, but that the parents had recently “moved from an adjoining parish into the house where the child died, in which house it appears there had lately been smallpox, and that it was “learnt only too late, that there had been no measures of disinfection adopted prior to the A “change of occupancy. Obviously there must “have been grave neglect here on somebody’s part, for we cannot suppose for a moment that a medical man would have disregarded so important a necessity as disinfection, had he been “aware of the fact of smallpox having recently been in the house he was about to occupy. Here the facts to be noted are, first, that the daughter of the surgeon had probably been well vaccinated, and yet she became infected by smallpox and died, while there is no mention of any other member of the family being infected by the disease, although the house had not been disinfected. Secondly, that the Editor of the Lancet (probably a medical man,) does not notice the fact that the vaccinated person, who should have been protected from smallpox when exposed to the infection (according to the medical theory) was not protected, while other members of the same family were equally exposed without being infected, Does not this suggest the idea that weakness of health, from whatever cause, predisposes the body to infectious disease, when persons in good health are less predisposed to infection under the same external conditions of exposure? And might we not ask whether the Vaccination itself had or had not affected the health of the victim in this case ? Thirdly, the Editor of the Lancet seems to admit that persons who have been vaccinated should not be exposed to the infection of smallpox if they are to be saved, while disinfection is the real protection for all alike, vaccinated or unvaccinated : and this we believe is the truth ; in which case it is a sanitary question, and a landlords question, a builder’s question, and inspector's question, rather than a question of Vaccination or no Vaccination ; and Parliament should deal with the main questions, concerning the duties of landlords as well as their rights. In the Times of February 15, 1871, we find a “18 PROPAGATED. — Our correspondent, Mr. Henry Carr, informs us that on the 9th inst. the authorities inspected James’ Court, and he hears that the whole court is condemned as unfit for human habitation. This is the true theory, and is evidently admitted to be so by intelligent observers. Mr. Henry Carr does not recommend Vaccination to protect the inhabitants of James’ Court from the infection of smallpox, but agrees with the sanitary inspectors that such a place may propagate smallpox, and is unfit for human habitation. Bad air, foul water, bad food, bodily fatigue, exposure, anxiety, sorrow, are general causes of weak health in adults, which predispose the organism to infection from all zymotic diseases, typhus fever, cholera, plague, &c., and no prophylactic that we know of can protect either infants or adults from epidemic infections or contagious disease. It is customary to quote statistics in corroboration of the medical theory of Vaccination, but statistics are. only good for argument when thoroughly accurate in all respects; and even then they may be used in a one-sided manner. The Hon. W. E. Forster (as reported in the daily papers) has made such a use of them in moving for a committee to inquire into the operation of the Vaccination Act of 1867. “He found that “for thirty years before Vaccination was introduced into this country, the average number of deaths every year was 3,000 for every million of the inhabitants, and that from 1854 to 1865, the number had been reduced to 202 per million. In Prussia the statistics were even stronger, for there the number of deaths from smallpox had been reduced from 3,422 to 276 (176 ?) for every million of inhabitants. The most extraordinary fact brought out by the late epidemic confirmed “all that had been previously known respecting the good effects of Vaccination, and that was that amongst the nurses and servants of the smallpox hospital, who invariably submitted to Vaccination, which was generally found to be revaccination, not a single case was known in which they had been affected. Statistics showed that the extent of the epidemic had really gone up “and down according (?) as compulsion had or had not been enforced. In Scotland and Ireland, where they had secured almost complete compulsion, the disease was formerly very prevalent, “and now it was reduced almost to a minimum. “In those districts, too, in England, where Vaccination had been enforced, smallpox had “almost vanished (?).May not these statistics be put in parallel with those of cholera-morbus, so fatally prevalent some 8 years ago, and now reduced to a minimum without the aid of any known prophylactic ? But can we rely on these reports? Is the use here made of them legitimate ? In the Lancet of January 14th, 1871, there is an article headed Smallpox in Belfast, in which it is stated, that “From a circular lately issued by the Poor Law Commissioners of Ireland, relative to the spread “of smallpox in Belfast, we find that seventy- “nine cases have occurred there, resulting in nine deaths since March, 1870. The Commissioners “point out to the Guardians of the Belfast union, “that when the disease has been imported into “other parts of Ireland, it has either not spread, “or quickly died out, and that its breaking out “into an epidemic in Belfast is probably owing to “two causes, — namely, the dangerous sanitary “condition of parts of the town, and the very defective state of Vaccination. Here again the Commissioners think that dangerous sanitary conditions may be as probable a cause of the spread of smallpox, as the defective state of Vaccination.. The reports of smallpox hospitals state that “there is a difference of 34 per cent. in favour of Vaccination, where fatal results ensue. What does this mean ? that in every hundred deaths from smallpox after Vaccination, 134 deaths occur amongst patients who have not been vaccinated. Does this say much for Vaccination when we know that amongst the poor, the unvaccinated are many times more numerous than the vaccinated ; more nearly in the proportion of ten to one than that of one and a half to one? To be of any value, these statistics should state, first, the whole number of cases of smallpox in a given neighbourhood; secondly, what number of these have been vaccinated, and what number have not; thirdly, how many recover in each class, and how many die ; because 134 deaths to 500 recoveries amongst the unvaccinated would be comparatively less than 100 deaths to 200 recoveries amongst the vaccinated patients of the same neighbourhood. The proportions of recoveries as well as of deaths should be accompanied by parallels of age, sex, and ascertained previous states of health in the vaccinated and the unvaccinated, to render them trustworthy and complete. In discussing the value of statistics of one epidemic, may we not legitimately compare them with those of another epidemic ; smallpox, for instance, with the supposed advantages of a prophylactic specific, and ‘cholera-morbus, without such advantage ? And if one of these epidemics, more or less infectious, be as erratic in its periods of recurrence without the application of any known specific treatment as the other with its Vaccination preventive, may we not premise that the supposed specific is gratuitously credited with effects which are due to other and quite different though unknown causes ? If it be contended that cholera is not an infectious disease, what are we to say of measles, scarlatina, and whooping cough, which are undoubtedly infectious epidemics, and generally fatal in as large a ratio as smallpox, with or without Vaccination, and yet varying in degrees of intensity and in periods of virulent and widespread recurrence as much as smallpox itself? Why are the people not alarmed by the prevalence of these diseases as much as by that of smallpox? Is it not because they are known to be more or less correlated with infantile weakness, bad nursing, delicate health in adults, foul air and water, bad or insufficient food, and other causes of debility, as much as with the infections themselves ; and that people in good health may nurse and reside with patients thus infected, without running any great risk of being themselves infected, although there is no supposed specific to guard them against the taint; unless we admit the supposed specific of the homoeopathic doctors, namely tincture of Bella-donna. And why not legislate for the compulsory use of this reputed specific, as well as for Compulsory Vaccination ? The Hon. W. E. Forster has been misled by unreliable statistics, just as many of our journalists,  13 weeks, while in the previous ten weeks the average had been 104 per week. Why is there no medical specific against other zymotic infections as well as Vaccination against smallpox ? And how is it that other epidemics RE are equally subject to periods of decline and cholera so fatally rife in 1832, 1849, 1854, and not nearly so general during the intermediate years ? Was it stamped temporarily out by any specific mode of treatment, or left to its own erratic course ? What is known of the causes of cholera or of any of the so-called zymotic epidemics? They come and go like the epidemic diseases of cattle, and nothing positive is known of the causes of infection, nor of specific prophylactics to protect us against them ; nor of a truly scientific mode of treatment to resist them, such as the one now adopted for that quondam scourge commonly called the itch, which is really caused by a living microscopic parasite. Zymotic diseases are supposed to be propagated by microscopic organic germs analogous to the fermentive cell germs of the vinegar plant or mould, but nothing positive is known of any prophylactic. We need not dwell on the dangers of impure vaccine lymph inoculating foul disease, nor on the futility of imperfect Vaccination, as these are not involved in the denial of Vaccination as a prophylactic ; but we may observe that if the House of Commons accept the doubtful theory of Vaccination as a creed, and take upon themselves to make it compulsory, they cannot refuse to give proof of their own faith in this medical creed of Vaccination and revaccination by doing to themselves as they would do to others, and preach by example as well as by precept. Before passing a law to render Vaccination compulsory for the community at large, all the members of Parliament, in the two houses, peers and commoners, ministers and bishops, should be publicly vaccinated or revaccinated to encourage the people to follow the example and condone the rashness of their legislators in meddling with creeds of medical doctrine which should be left to private judgment and discretion. Not so with the known facts of foul air, water, and bad food, bad drainage and building, which are positively known to be injurious to public health, and may be fitly dealt with by sanitary laws and regulations. The result of our inquiry then is, that three great classes of facts tell against the prophylactic theory of Vaccination ; namely, first, those who have had smallpox once may have it a second time ; secondly, children who have been properly vaccinated may catch the smallpox and die of it; thirdly, millions of people in every land, in fact the great majority of the population, have never been vaccinated in countries where smallpox is epidemic, and although these people live in close vicinage with the infected districts, they do not become infected by the disease, but live to a ripe old age, or die prematurely from other causes. Besides these well-known facts against the theory, we know that the statistics used in support of it are only partial; and even were they partially trustworthy they would only form a parallel with those of cholera-morbus and other epidemics which claim no prophylactic treatment or abstention as the cause of their decline or periodic disappearance and recrudescence in particular regions of the globe. It is well-known on the other hand that filthy and overcrowded dwellings have much to do with both the spread and the perpetuation of infectious epidemics ; but parochial authorities, being often interested in the property of such districts, find means of thwarting Medical Inspectors in the performance of their duties, and evading sanitary laws and regulations, which interfere with private interests in such localities. Not Compulsory Vaccination, then, but better dwellings for the poor in all large towns, and compulsory demolition of unhealthy rookeries, should be the real question for Parliamentary investigation. At a time when churches are being disestablished and theological! doctrines left to take care of 16 themselves without compulsory legislation, it would be unwise to allow medical corporations to dictate measures to be inflicted on the public by compulsory legislation. … For until physiology has been sufficiently advanced to assume the character of a real science as the basis of therapeutic principles, medical theories and doctrines, varyıng in different sects and schools, ages and countries, are as baseless and empirical as theological creeds which vary in different sects and religions all over the world. The principles of surgery are much more worthy of respect than those of medicine, and the one should not be confounded with the other branch of the Medical Profession. With regard to the care of smallpox patients, it was formerly the practice in hospitals to keep the wards close and warm, until experience showed that hopeless cases, in a dying state, put into open sheds in the courtyard, to make room for other patients, recovered rapidly by being in fresh air, while those who were retamed with every care, in close wards, recovered slowly, when they did not die. Patients may be kept in bed away from draughts without excluding the fresh air day or night ; and in such conditions nearly all recover. MEDICUS. London, February 24th, 1871. BILLING, PRINTER, GUILDFORD,  