IMPORTANT FACTS   ON   VACCINATION   URGENTLY DEMANDING PUBLIC ATTENTION.   BY   EDMUND PRO CTE R.  " The true observer in any department of Nature will have his eyes open for any occurrence, which, according to received theories, ought not to happen, for these are the facts which serve as clues to new discoveries. - Sir John Herschell.  FttXCtt TWOPENCE.   LONDON:  JAME3 BURNS, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, HOLBORN.   NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE :  PRINTED BY J. M. CARR, STEAM PRINTING WORKS, 21, LOW FRIAR STREET.  1873.   IMPORTANT FACTS ON VACCINATION  URGENTLY DEMANDING PUBLIC ATTENTION.   At the outset, I wish to anticipate a criticism which will be made, I know, by some who read the following pages, and by many who may not.  The charge of presumption will be brought against one not educated in the medical profession pronouncing an opinion on an important physiological question. I can only say in reply, what will, I believe, not be controverted, that few members of the faculty profess to have fairly investigated the question, (i.) that I will appeal throughout to the highest authorities that can be produced, and, that after a most careful and earnest investigation, I think the subject a terribly urgent and neglected one.  I wage no war against individuals, but against a system ; but when a medical sect usurps authority, truth and freedom must assert itself. Many physicians I esteem and honour, but I have yet to learn that common sense is a monopoly of the profession. Professor Carpenter said, in his Inaugural Address to the British Association, at the Brighton meeting, that " The common sense of mankind may arrive at a decision that is practically worth all the arguments of all the philosophers who have fought again and again over the battle-ground ; and this common sense, disciplined and enlarged by appropriate culture, becomes one of our most valu- able instruments of scientific enquiry, affording in many instances the best, and sometimes the only basis for a rational conclusion."  Whilst, then, in this paper, I am prepared to meet the sup- porters of Vaccination at every point and on their own ground, and fearlessly appeal to their own official and other statistics, my   (i.) As an example of this, it will be sufficient to quote the following from the evidence of Sir William Jenner before the Committee of the House of Commons, 1S71 : " Does not know whether scrofula, or phthisis are more common since Vaccination than before ; is not an authority as to the alleged possibility of disease being produced by the intermixture of blood with the lymph. Mr. Hutchinson, being a man of scienti- fic position, is no doubt right that one child has conveyed syphilis to 9 persons ; has no practical knowledge on the matter, and would rather not give an opinion either that it could or could not be so conveyed." ! ! - (See the Blue Book, 4574 - 614.)   remarks are in the main addressed to those who, anxious foi the truth and free from prejudice, are ready to look at this important question in the calm light of reason and common sense, would exceed the limits of this paper to attempt a history of Vaccination, or anything approaching to an exhaustive treatment of the whole question ; but I am so much impressed, and I may say amazed, with the overwhelming character of the evidence that can be brought against this extraordinary practice, and so in- dignant at the tyranny of the law which seeks to force it upon the people, that I feel impelled to do everything that lies in my power to draw public attention to the subject, and propose, there- fore, as briefly and pointedly as the case will admit, to recapitulate those facts and considerations which have convinced me that its practice is a huge imposture, a folly, and a crime. It is the more necessary to draw attention to the subject in this way from the fact that the press, with a few honorable exceptions, has been blind to evidence, and ready to do battle for one of the silliest and most insane practices ever palmed upon mankind.*  It is a question to which I have given attention for some years, and during the last two I have studied it closely, from every point of view, and have read, or carefully examined, almost the whole of the works mentioned in Appendix (B.) I feel deeply on the sub- ject, and find the temptation very great to express myself more warmly than is perhaps either wise or necessary, but will endeavour to restrain myself, and confine my remarks very much to the stern and sober regions of fact.  I am profoundly convinced that the Anti-Vaccinator's cause is just. The eternal principles of truth are his "shield and buckler." Time is on his side, and symptoms are not wanting that victory may be nearer than he hopes.  " Often do the spirits Of great events stride on before trie event : And in to-day already walks to-morrow. "- Coleridge.  In throwing back the charge of presumption, we may remind those who raise it that the history of medicine is ill-fitted to in- spire thinking men with unlimited confidence in the dogmas of the profession. Sir William Johnson, Physician to William IV  * I feel bound to acknowledge that this remark does not apply to the New tie Daily Chronicle, Northern Daily Express, or North of England Advertiser which 1 all opposed Compulsory Vaccination, and treated the whole subject in an enlightened and dispassionate manner.   said " There was more quackery in the profession than" out of it," (ii.), and Sir Astley Cooper testifies, - "Medical art is founded on conjecture and improved by murder." The public have not forgotten the shameful history of inoculation, (iii.) although, no doubt, the faculty would be glad if its memory could be effaced. Applauded and eulogised by the profession as the one thing need- ful, proclaimed from the pulpit, and practised by the faculty and the public, the eyes of the people were, after many years, at last opened to the baneful and terrible results of this vicious system. In 1838 this country was visited with an epidemic of smallpox which carried off 16,268 of its inhabitants, and there was scarcely a town, village, or hamlet, where its blighting influence was not felt. When the country had been brought to this deplorable state "collective wisdom" awoke at last from its stupor - the scales fell from its eyes - after thousands had been slaughtered by it ; and, being aroused to a sense of duty by the pressing requirements of the public, passed a law in 1840, prohibiting the practice of smallpox inoculation. Thus the very profession which had declared that it considered "smallpox inoculation as highly beneficial to mankind," (iv.) turned round and became its bitterest opponents, at the same time adopting another practice not one whit better, but as loathsome as the one they were relinquishing. " Yet, at the bidding of this very profession, we are now called upon to offer up our children a living sacrifice at the shrine of bestial corruption." (v.)  The history of phlebotomy presents similar grave and miserable reflections. During a long series of years bleeding was practised and applauded by the profession to an extent that now appeal's almost incredible, and physicians of the present day admit that   (ii.) Johnson also wrote : " I declare it to be my most conscientious opinion, that if there were not a single physician, or surgeon, or apothecary, or druggist, in the world, there would be less mortality among mankind than there is now." Dr. Reid said, much more recently : " More infantile subjects are - perhaps diurnally - destroyed by the mortar and pestle, than in ancient Bethlehem fell victims to the Herodian Massacre."  (iii.) Inoculation is the introduction into the blood of actual variolous or smallpox matter ; it was brought into this country in 1 722 from Constantinople by Lady Mary Wortley Montague, and eagerly adopted by the profession 1  (iv.) These are the exact words used in a public declaration of the College of Physicians, in 1754.  (v.) See chapters on the History of Inoculation, in the Co-operator for 1870 - 71.   6  thousands of persons were either literally bled to death, or had their constitutions so weakened that they fell an easy prey to disease.  It is well known also, that in apoplexy, cupping on the temples or back of the head was used, and in other complaints practices as barbarous and cruel have been adopted, and lauded by the pro- fession even in very modern times. Quite recently it was the rage to give wine in typhus fever, but the tide has turaed. In many fever hospitals alcohol is now disused, and, as reported, with excellent results, (vi.) How mischevious it would have been to pass a compulsory law twenty years ago, at the bidding of the then ascendent school of medicine, to command the giving of alcohol to fever patients ! And drugs ! It is frightful to think of the enormous number of persons who must have been, and, in spite of reform in this respect in recent years, still are drugged to death even in a single year ! My object in dwelling so long on this feature of the question must be obvious to every one. With such facts before us, with such painful recollections, surely the calm reason, the free thought, and the common sense of England and of the educated world, can no longer bow down before a medical fetish as cruel, perhaps as fatal, as any of these effete and savage creeds !  It is needless here to recapitulate the origin and early history of Vaccination; it is a tale of which we have already heard too much. Suffice it to say that Jenner declared the practice a perfect pro- tection against smallpox, that he received from Parliament £30,000 for his " immortal discovery " (!) and that his theory of absolute protection is now abandoned by every intelligent mem- ber of the profession. The practice could never have obtained the footing it has in this island, had it not been, first of all, patronised by the great and mighty in the land, endowed by grants of public money, established by Acts of Parliament, and enforced by pains and penalties.  It is estimated that the doctors of this country are yearly in receipt of £300,000 from government for public Vaccination, and if we take private practice into account, it is probable that from   (vi.) See a Letter from Dr. Edmunds, in the Medical Free Press, of February 14th, 1872 ; Dr. Gardner's statistics of typhus fever in the Glasgow Hospital ; Dr. Cham- ers' Lectures chiefly Clinical; Dr. J. B. Russell's Clinical Study of Stimulation in Typhut ; and sundry articles in the Lancet, Medical Temptrance Journal, Sec.   this one source, and without reckoning for the diseases produced by Vaccination, they take out of the luckless pockets of the people not less than a million of money every year ! Perhaps the recom- mendation to re- vaccinate may not be altogether inexplicable when this fact is remembered. I have heard of a treatise recommending leeches being applied once a week to all adults, but then it was written by a breeder of the sanguinary reptile. Without attribut- ing to those interested a more sordid nature than in many around them, can we, under the circumstances, be surprised that they up- hold a system bringing in such a harvest, and especially when we recollect that the prestige of the profession is so bound up in its efficacy. Gold is a mighty power; but the resistless tide of public opinion is mightier still, and must assert its own omnipotence.  I will proceed at once to controvert some of those arguments most commonly advanced in favour of this extraordinary dogma.  Until quite recently it used to be a stock argument to appeal to the evidence from Scotland and Ireland, the successful carrying out of the Act in those countries having been the means, it was alleged, of stamping out the smallpox there. But these fine-spun theories have been completely upset by the recent fearful epidemic.  The third annual report of the Registrar-General of Scotland says, "Never, since civil registration began in Scotland, has smallpox been so rare as during the past three years, when the Vaccination Act was in full operation." Dr. Playfair said in the House of Commons, on 6th July, 1870: - "There could not be the slightest doubt that compulsory laws, when properly applied, as in Scotland and Ireland, were perfectly equal to stamp out  smallpox  in a country." (vii.) The Registrar-General for Scotland in- forms us that 97"7 per cent, of the births have been vaccinated, the Compulsory Act having been in operation eight years ; yet, during 1871, they have had a frightful epidemic in Dundee. In this instance we have the astounding fact that out of every 100 deaths from smallpox more than 37 were children under five years of age! Taking into consideration those children who died in extreme infancy, after registration and before Vaccination, it may be said that, practically, almost every child in Scotland is Vaccinated; yet here we have an epidemic in which the mortality was 8'8 per cent, of the total deaths; and of these, 37 out of every 100 were  (vii) The Timet. July 7th, 1870.   children under five years of age. If there be not cause and effect in these facts, let the Jennerites explain the causes that steps may immediately be taken to stop this fearful slaughter of the innocents. After this epidemic Scotland has quietly dropped out of the quiver from which arrows may be drawn to stab the " fanatics." And if we turn to Ireland we find the logic of facts has also crushed to atom& this pillar of support. It has been frequently asserted, and Sir Dominic Corrigan said in the House of Commons, two or three years ago, that Vaccination had stamped out  smallpox  in Ireland; 'but since then there have been frightful epidemics of this disease in Dublin, Belfast, and Cork. I have all the official statistics by me, but without going too much into detail it may be sufficient to say in relation to Ireland that during the recent epidemic the mortality from smallpox in Dublin was 7'6 per thousand of the population, whilst the mortality in London, dur- ing the epidemic year, 1871, was only 2-4 per thousand; and in Cork, in the quarter ended June, 1S72, the rate actually reached 23"2 per thousand. In other words, in one of the principal towns of well-vaccinated Ireland, the mortality from smallpox, for the first half of 1872, has been TEN times GREATER than in London during the worst epidemic we have had for seventy years ! No doubt the doctors, who accounted for the absence of the disease by the universal stamping out by  vaccination tion, will now account for its prevalence by the statement that Ireland is " only half-vaccinated." But what dependence can be placed upon the shifting sand of such assertions ?  Sweden has been another favorite resort of the vaccinators. In 1842 there were only two deaths from smallpox in that country, and Old Physic pointing triumphantly to the fact, said that the lymph had done it, and that Sweden was the best vaccinated  country in Europe. But, lo ! " In the next four or five years ;"  I am quoting from Dr. Garth Wilkinson - "the fio-ures rose steadily to an annual death-rate of between 2,000 and 3,000 in well-vaccinated Sweden. smallpox was easily stamped out when it was not there; but so soon as it came, its heavy feet made a foot-ball of colleges."  . But the evidence from France is even more remarkable. From the returns of the French Government, presented through the Minister of Commerce and Agriculture, and prepared by the Imperial Academy of Medicine, a translation of which lies before   me, (viii.) we find the following startling announcement : - " For every 88 cases of smallpox occurring in the ten Departments least vaccinated, there occurred 427 cases in the ten Departments most vaccinated ; and for every one death in the ten Departments least vaccinated there were 49 in those most vaccinated." That was in 1867, and in 1865 the tables give the following results: - "For every 16 deaths by smallpox occurring in the ten Depart- ments least vaccinated, there occurred 106 in the ten most vaccinated."  I know that statistics are apt to mislead unless carefully scrutinized by experienced reasoners, but the validity of thepe deductions has never, I believe, been called in question, and they appear incontestibly to show, that in France, Vaccination, instead of being a protection, has been a fruitful propagator of the disease.  A further strong proof of this is to be found in the report, for 1868, of Dr. Ducharme, first-class aide-major of the 1st Regiment of Voltigeurs of the Guard. The 1st and 2nd Regiments' were lodged in exactly similar barracks, situated in the same court, and in all respects under similar conditions, except that the one had been re-vaccinated, the other not. smallpox broke out, not among the latter, as it ought to have done under the hypothesis of Vaccination, but among the former - the "protected;" and be- came epidemic and confluent, carrying off " many victims - among others one of the infirmary assistants." Dr. Ducharme enquires: - " To what should we attribute this epidemic in a regiment in which 437 re-vaccinations had been performed; where the hygienic conditions - as space, ventilation, and food - were excellent; when in the 2nd Regiment of Voltigeurs, lodged in precisely similar barracks situated in the same court, but on whom no Vaccination had yet been made, not a single case of smallpox existed ?."  Such facts as I have produced from Scotland, Ireland, Sweden, and France, founded as they are on incontestible evidence, appear to me to be unanswerable, and are sufficient, if we went no fur- ther, to undermine - may I not say to destroy - the faith of every independent thinker in this monstrous fiction. Surely, after such exposures, if the people allow themselves any longer to he hood- winked in this matter, George Eliot must have put it much too mildly when she wrote that " most of us go about through the world well-wadded with stupidity."  (viii.) Longman's, 1870.   10  But the evidence from Berlin is even more overwhelming. Compulsory Vaccination has been carried out there for a great number of years with a rigour not only unknown but happily im- possible in this country. Not only so, but re- vaccination is very extensively practised ; it is almost universal in the army, and has long been largely practised by the general public. Yet we now learn (ix.) that in 1871 a most dreadful epidemic raged in Berlin, during the last quarter of which year the percentage of smallpox deaths was eight times that of London during the same period.  " Prussia," says the Pall Mall Gazette of May 24th, 1871, " is the country where re-vaccination is most generally practised, the law making the precaution obligatory on every person, and the authorities conscientiously watching over its performance. As a natural result cases of smallpox are rare." (!) Oh, the irony of events ! Oh, the incredible audacity of lies !  It would be difficult to use language too severe in reprobation of the effrontery or the ignorance with which pro-vaccinators ignore these crushing and irrefutable facts. I lay them at the door of the medical faculty, and challenge them to disprove my statements. I charge them as scientific men with either scandal- ous ignorance of notorious facts or shameful dishonesty in refusing to examine them. If such statements are fallacious, why, in the name of human reason and common honesty, do they not refute and expose them? if they are true, as I maintain they are, and unanswerable, as I believe them, then to defend such a system is inexcusable, and to practice it a crime.  I have spoken of the extraordinary ignorance that prevails on this question. Nothing has convinced me more of this than the avidity with which random, false, and unauthenticated paragraphs in the newspapers in favour of Vaccination are seized upon by an almost incredibly gullible public, and even by medical men them- selves, and eagerly thrust in the faces of those who are, from patient study and earnest conviction, opposed to the practice of this pestilent delusion. A striking example of this occurred very recently, and I am anxious to draw the reader's particular atten- tion to it that he may be on his guard in the future against giving heed to any such unreliable and unauthorized statements.  The paragraph first appeared in the Vienna Weekly Medical Journal, was transferred to the columns of the British Medical   (ix.) Kegistrar-General'a Report.   11  Journal, and went the round of the papers. It was to the effect that during the recent Franco-German war the deaths from  smallpox  in the re-vaccinated German army were 263, and in the vaccinated French army 23,469, concluding with the ironical reflec- tion, "This terrible difference puzzles and confounds the Anti- Vaccinators.'' Now, a more false, lame, and self-confuting statement it would be difficult to make. In the first place the authority is not quoted. In the second place no official report has yet been presented. In the third place, even if it were true that such an enormous number of Frenchmen and so few Germans had succumbed to the disease, could we be much surprised ? The Prussian legions were much better protected in their general sani- tary arrangements ; they were well-fed, well-clothed, and flushed with victory ; the French troops were ill cared for, shut up in for- tresses by thousands and tens of thousands, a far larger proportion of them men of dissolute life, and the whole army dispirited and miserable with defeat. Could any body of men be in worse con- ditions to resist the onslaughts of disease ? But in the fourth place the deaths from smallpox in the general population are usually reckoned at ten or twelve per cent, of the cases, so that if 23,469 French soldiers died from this cause, there must have been about 200,000 down with the disease, which would be equal to the entire French army ! The whole thing is so utterly pre- posterous that it is disgraceful to any medical paper to have admitted such nonsense. But let us pursue the enemy from Dan unto Beersheba, and, for the sake of argument, let us suppose for a moment the correctness of the figures. How came it to pass that if re-vaccination is the highest form of protection there should have been 263 soldiers to whom it was no protection ; and if 23,469 French soldiers perished of smallpox after Vaccination, does not that circumstance give the lie direct to the statements that Vaccination either protects or mitigates the smallpox? But the fact is that the French troops are now all re-vaccinated as much as the German, so that the whole argument of the Jennerites falls ignominiously to pieces. Dr. Bayard, a very distinguished French physician, writes as follows : - " It was from France that the idea of re-vaccination came : contested for a long time, it now triumphs. There is no compulsory law with regard to re- vaccination tion in France, but we have arbitrary military regulations which operate as well as a law, with penalties for objectors. Every   12  young soldier on his entrance into a regiment is re-vaccinated. Our army knows of no exceptions." If then upwards of 23,000 (or only 2,300) French soldiers died of smallpox during the war, it is as thorough a demolition of the re-vaccination humbug as it is possible to conceive ! Will the Vienna and English journals have the honesty to confess they have published a falsehood ?  An extract from Dr. Collie's Report of the Homerton Hospital, for 1871-2, has also been circulated in the public press with a like design, and is another striking example, I do not say of wilful, but of the most extraordinary perversion of rational conclusions.  Dr. Collie says " The information which we have obtained has afforded overwhelming evidence of the protective power of Vacci- nation and re-vaccination, in the prevention of smallpox." A little examination of the report may assist us in estimating the nature of this " overwhelming evidence."  Dr. Collie's statistics (!) are of the loosest kind. For instance he states that, in four months, ending with "15th June, 1871 1,194 cases were admitted." Yet, in this report, dated 1st October, 1872, he gives the results, or pretends to do so, in two tables : - Table I. " Showing the mortality from smallpox, in relation to Vaccination (1,000 cases)" instead of 1,194. What about the 194 omitted ? This first table shows 837 recoveries ; yet, the second table, which pretends to show the severity or mildness of attack in those recovered, gives details " from 745 cases of recovery." What about the 92 omitted ?  If a bankrupt presented statistics of his affairs, in this fashion, the Judge would commit him for contempt of court. So Dr. Collie deserves to be. Although an accomplished casuist Dr. Collie may, nevertheless, be caught tripping. He says, in effect, that those vaccinated persons who have been attacked by smallpox and died of it, "have been inefficiently vaccinated ;" and further, to account for the large number who have so died, he asserts that it is found that, "out of 1,000 cases of smallpox, 65 only had been efficiently vaccinated, the other 935 had been inefficiently vaccinated !"  Nine hundred and thirty-five out of a thousand so vaccinated as to be unprotected against fatal smallpox ! Could there pos- sibly be a more damning admission ? We are told by those who ought to know, that the operation, if performed with ordinary care, by a qualified person, is a very simple one. At whose door, then^   13  must be laid this shameful dereliction of duty ? The admission is the more crushing from the fact that the public are as yet in ignorance in what "efficient vaccination" consists. The National Vaccine Board, in 1820, said four punctures were necessary ; Mr. Marson " thinks this standard not sufficiently high, and always makes six punctures." Dr. Collie, himself, does not seem to be very clear on the subject, but evidently leans to the conviction that the more punctures the better ! Nor are the Jennerites one whit moreagreedastohowoftentheriteshouldbeperformed. Yet, in spite of these humiliating contradictions, Dr. Collie has the effrontery - can we honestly call it anything else ? - to speak of "this one so easily-preventible disease!" So easily preventible! Then, why has it not been stamped out long ago ? and who, in heaven's name, are responsible for the 22,000 persons who died from it in this country, in 1871, after nearly twenty years of compulsory Vaccination ? The doctors have had it in their own hands, and the Medical De- partment of the Privy Council have done their best to rule us with a rod of iron. The disease may indeed be more easily preventible than many suppose, but preventible by means worthy of rational beings, not by a system unclean and superstitious on the face of it, by which, according to this, its high-priest at Homerton, 935 vaccinated persons out of 1,000 were in danger of death by that disease against which it was declared to protect. But as Hamlet says -  "Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind."  No aspect of this painful question is more melancholy and alarming that the fact, of which there can no longer be the slightest doubt, and which the authorities are now admitting one after another, that Vaccination is, to an incalculable extent, the source and propagator of many odious and fatal diseases - syphilis, scrofula, ulcers, erysipelas, leprosy, and cancer - not to mention blindness and tubercular disease.  I am aware that this position is less demonstrable than those I have already taken up, and that it may be hotly disputed in cer- tain quarters, but the evidence is of a character, as it seems to me, to convince any unprejudiced thinker. The most celebrated medical man in Europe - Ricord - denied in 1856 that syphilis was transmissible in this way; but in 1862 he began to doubt, and in 1863 he declared that his mind was changed. In 1862 Professor Ricord delivered a lecture at the Hotel Dieu, in Paris, and he made   14  use of these very remarkable expressions : - " If the transmission of disease with vaccine lymph is clearly demonstrated, Vaccination must be altogether discontinued; for in the present state of science we are in possession of no criterion that may permit the conscientious practitioner to assert that the lymph with which he inoculated is perfectly free from the mixture with tainted blood." A year later, on the 19th of May, 1S63, at the Academy of Medicine, he makes use of this expression : - " At first I repulsed the idea that syphilis could be transmitted by Vaccination. The recurrence of facts appearing more and more confirmatory, I accepted the possibility, but with reserve, and even with repug- nance ; but to-day I hesitate no more to proclaim their reality."  Dr. Hutchinson, M.R.C.S., Surgeon to the London Ophthalmic, and Skin Diseases Hospitals, in his evidence before the parlia- mentary committee of 1871, gave his experience of cases (x.) in which syphilis had been transmitted in this way, in one of which an apparently healthy child had thus been the means of transmitting this loathsome disease to eleven grown up persons. He acknowledged before the committee that many professional men had said to him in reference to these cases, " I should not have believed it :" some adding, " unless you said it."  At a discussion at the Royal Medical and Chirurgicai iSociety, in the spring of last year, Dr. Hutchinson said "He did not enter- tain a shadow of doubt upon the subject. In the present case the evidence was cumulative." In the course of the same discussion another doctor - Mr. De Meric - quoted one instance in Brittany, in which he said it was "beyond doubt" that thirty or forty children (!) had contracted syphilis in consequence of being vac- cinated from a syphilitic child.  " The deaths from syphilis (Dr. Farr says) have doubled in 14 years, and this disease is the cause of many deaths registered under other forms. (! !) The great majority of the victims of this disease (he continues) are infants." The following are the actual number of Deaths from Syphilis in England : -  Average of 1838-39-40 j ""ftfiEft** " j 165 per annun,  Average of 1858-59-60 | After Vaccination had been ob- . ,  ( ligatory several years \ "  Average of 1868-69-70 \ After Vaccination had beenob- ....  j ligatory H to 16 years j ° ° "   (x.) See Digest of Evidence, by Thos. Baker, Esq. . Shaw and Sons, Fetter Lane,   15  Dr. Massey Harding, M.R.C.S., F.R.C.S., relates a case, on the authority of the Medical Journal of Berlin, in which a certain Dr. Coggiola received some vaccine lymph in a tube from the Con- servateur dAcqui. He inserted some into the arm of a child eleven months old, in perfect health. Ten days afterwards he vaccinated from the child, forty-six children, all in good health. From one of these forty -six he vaccinated seventeen, making in all sixty-three. Of this number forty-six were more or less infected with syphilis. Dr. Harding further says: "Phlegmonous ery- sipelas, inflammation of the glandular system, and pycemia may follow re-vaccination. I myself have seen several cases."  In the New York Medical and Surgical Journal, Dr. Shaw thus writes on Vaccination : " I have known most fearful convul- sions brought on by it, and that in children apparently in the firmest health."  Dr. Bakewell, Vaccinator-General of Trinidad, has expressed the opinion that leprosy may be extensively conveyed by the same means, and that the mixture of blood was not the only way in which disease might be communicated by Vaccination." (xi.) Dr. Drysdale "had vaccinated a child suffering from syphilis, and warned the parents against having any other child vaccinated from it. He learned, however, that at one of the large hospitals the child was used for the purpose of vaccinating others, (xi.) Dr. Simon himself admits "it is quite certain that blood becomes mixed with the lymph, and the blood of syphilitic persons conveys syphilis." (xi.) Dr. Copland, in his Dictionary of Practical Medicine, says "that Vaccination favors the prevalence of the several forms of scrofula." Depaul laid before the Academy of Paris 450 authenticated cases where syphilis was transplanted by the Vaccination performed by high-standing physicians. Well may Dr. Bayard exclaim, "Adieu to Vaccination; we will have no more of it: syphilis has revealed the criminal." (xii.) Dr. Perrin, a well-known and talented French physician, says the influence of Vaccination on mortality has been proved in France. He mentions 114 cases of typhus. Of these 76 were vaccinated, and of them 35 died ; of the other 38 not vaccinated, only 3 died. Baron Michel shows in his statistical report of the 25,000 soldiers in Paris, that the mor-  (xi.) British Medical Journal for April, 1871.  (xii.) Essay on Vaccination after Thirty-five Years' reservation and experience, by Dr. Bayard, Cirey, Haute Marne, France.   16  tality is doubled since Vaccination, and that fevers have increased six-fold. He does not say in so many words that this is the sole cause of this sickness and this mortality, but it unquestionably has a great deal to do with it, and it behoves those who think otherwise to give an equally reasonable explanation. The in- crease of fever, and especially the increase of fever in those depart- ments of France most vaccinated, (xiii.) is one worthy of the profound attention of the Statistical Society, of practitioners, and of the public generally.  Shallow reasoners may imagine that if they can show that Vaccination has reduced the mortality from smallpox, they have then proved their case; but if the mortality is merely misplaced, if instead of smallpox, fever, (xiv.) consumption, and infant mor- tality (xv.) enormously increase, and if we reap an awful harvest of syphilis, erysipelas, and scrofulous complaints, poor humanity is rather cursed than blessed with this " precious discovery"!  It is believed by some veterinary authorities that the disease in the horse's heel called grease, corresponds to phthisis in the human subject. If this be true, how grave is the thought of the bare possibility of inoculating children with consumption. The strong probability, almost amounting to certainty, of the intimate con- nection between Vaccination and consumption is developed at length in the medical works of Dr. Nittinger of Stuttgard, and in Dr. Pearce's Essay, (xvi.) to which works I must refer those who desire to prosecute the enquiry. The latter makes the significant remark " That when smallpox is prevalent, the mortality from whooping-cough is low ; that when smallpox is in abeyance, the mortality from whooping-cough is high. When smallpox is in the ascendant, a great outcry is made about the dreadful mortality produced by it; yet, strange to say, the terrible fatality of chest disease, which completely casts into the shade the mortality from smallpox, passes unnoticed."  One of the gravest problems of recent years has been the very serious increase of insanity, and various explanations have been  (xiii.) Report presented to the Minister for Agriculture, Commerce, and Public Works, by the Imperial Academy of Medicine, Paris.  (xiv.) The Medical Times and Gazette for January 1, 1804, informs us that con- sumption "has widely spread since the introduction of Vaccination, and within ten years (ending 1853) has slain its 68,204 victims in the metropolis alone."  (xv.) See next page and elsewhere.  (xvi.) Published by BaUliere, Regent Street.   17  offered for this distressing phenomenon. It would be altogether presumptuous for me to offer an opinion, but Dr. Plagge, in his " Sources of Insanity," observes that the causes of increasing suicide and insanity are not so much to be searched for in social conditions, but in the terrible progress of the corruption of the human fluids. And Dr. C. C. Schieferdecker, of New York, says, "If prominent authors on insanity - such as Kelp, Eulenberg, Erlenmayer, Otto, Berklau - tabulate 71 cases of insanity as a direct consequence of Vaccination, why should we not have the right to assume that this operation is the most prolific cause of the fearful increase of madness? - particularly as the fact cannot other- wise be satisfactorily explained."  Dr. Garth Wilkinson says, " Thoughtful dentists suggest Vac- cination as a probable cause of the early decay of teeth in this age. The surmise gains countenance from the consideration that the germs of the second or permanent teeth are appearing at the time selected by Govei-nment for performing Vaccination."  M. Giraldes said "That in the Children's Hospital, in Paris, phlegmonous erysipelas was not rare after the most careful Vac- cination." (xvii.)  It is most remarkable, and calls for more attention than, so far as I know, it has received, that very nearly one-third of the whole number of deaths from erysipelas consists of infants under twelve months old, the year in which Vaccination is performed.  The eminent Dr. Bayard gives it as his opinion that "  vaccination tion has doubled the mortality among young persons." Dr. Engel, Director of the Statistical Bureau in Berlin, shows that the length of human life in Prussia has gradually but constantly sunk during forty years. And this in the face of advanced hygienic treatment and improved sanitary arrangement. Such a fact bearing upon the best-vaccinated country in Europe, carries along with it a sinister and almost irresistible conclusion.  One of the methods by which the advocates of Jennerism endeavour to bolster up their tottering system, is to do what they can to hoodwink the public into regarding Anti- Vaccinators as a set of fanatics, agitators, and charlatans. This is most discredit- able, for they know perfectly well, or ought to know, that from the time of the celebrated Dr. Hunter, the contemporary of Jenner,   (xvii.) Gazette Hebdomadaire, No. 28.   18  to the present day, there have not been wanting distinguished members of the medical profession, who have expressed the gravest doubts or the most uncompromising hostility to this dis- gusting system.  I have already quoted from some of them, but feel bound to go more at length into this part of my argument, as nothing has sur- prised me more in this inquiry than the number and eminence of those physicians who have declared emphatically against the prac- tice; and, I must add, nothing has tended more to convince me of the hollowness and dishonesty of those advocates who ignore the facts and arguments of others more eminent, more learned, and more experienced than themselves.  The illustrious Dr. Hunter, whom I have just alluded to, and than whom no greater authority can be quoted, writes as follows : - " Any extraneous substance introduced into the blood modifies the vitalized, or living, fluid. The introduction, by inoculation, of mineral poisons, or vegetable poisons, is hazardous, and in certain quantities, may be destructive ; but the introduction of animal products from another living body, be it a man, a cow, or even an ass, is infinitely more pernicious, because allied to it in being vitalized."  I have already quoted from Dr. Copland's well-known Dictionary of Medicine. I find he further remarks : - " The rapid or direct introduction of vegetable or animal putrid matter, purulent sanies, or animal poisons into the circulation, generally occasions not only changes in the blood, destroying its property of coagulating, but also most intense disease of the principal organs." (xviii.)  Dr. Gregory, for fifty years Director of the smallpox House in London, published before his death the opinion that "the idea, of extinguishing smallpox, by Vaccination, is as absurd as chimerical, as irrational as arrogant. I am driven to the conclusion that the susceptibility to pox-miasma grows with years in those who are vaccinated, while the opposite is the case with those not vaccinated." (xix.) Dr Gregory further showed his wisdom by refusing to have his own children vaccinated.  Dr. Epps, twenty-five years director of the Jenner Institute, had vaccinated 120,000 people, but finally declared :-" The  (xviii.) Vol. I, p. 196.  (xii.) Medical Times, 27th January, 1852.   19  vaccine virus is d either antidote nor corrigent, nor does it neutralize the smallpox, but only paralyses the expansive power of a good constitution, so that the disease has to fall back upon the mucous membranes. Nobody has the right to transplant such a mischievous poison, compulsorily, into the life of a child."  Dr. W. J. Collins, M.R.C.S., Eng., L.R.C.P., Edin., L.M., twenty years vaccine physician in Edinbro' and London, writes "If I HAD the desire to describe one-third of the victims ruined by Vaccination, the blood would stand still in your veins... ...I have not the least confidence in Vaccination ; it nauseates me, for it often transfers filthy and dangerous diseases from one to another, without offering any protection whatever."  Dr. Stowell, for twenty-five years a vaccine physician, says : - "The nearly general declaration of my patients enables me to pro- claim that Vaccination is not only an illusion, but a curse for humanity. More than ridiculous - it is irrational to say that any corrupt matter taken from boils and blisters of an organic creature could affect the human body otherwise than to injure it I, my- self, know the names of a hundred physicians who think like me."  Dr. A. H. Caron, of Paris, Chevalier of the Legion of Honour, and member of many learned societies, in a letter to Dr. Chaplin, of Portman Square, London, which the latter published two or three years ago, (xx.) says : - " For my own part, it is long since I have positively refused to vaccinate at any price ; while the suc- cessful results of the smallpox cases I have treated are beyond  appeal In a word, I maintain that Vaccination is a bauble,  gilded over, indeed, by Act of Parliament, but which is a bauble still, with which doctors rock - too often to a fatal sleep - the gullible children of the world."  Dr. Caron says further : - " The mortality from smallpox seems to increase with the number of Vaccinations and re-  vaccination tions performed every day in Paris."  Professor Mr anichfeld, of Berlin, exclaims : - " I, too, have vac- cinated my fourteen children, at a time when I did not know how injurious it was. To-day I would resist the authorities and the police law."  Dr. Hebra, Professor of Therapeutics at Vienna, and author of a Manual on Skin Diseases, enumerates some twelve life- endanger- ing diseases liable to recur to a person under Vaccination.   (xx.) The Co-operator, May 7th, 1870.   20  Dr. Stramm, Medical-Staff Officer in the Prussian army, in a pamphlet condemning Vaccination, not only as entirely useless but positively mischevious, concludes as follows : - " I myself have been vaccinated, and twice successfully re-vaccinated; and yet, in the exercise of my official medical duties during the late epide- mics in Prussia, I have been attacked with smallpox in the most virulent confluent form, and been only saved from worse conse- quences by a speedy change of climate."  Mr. Birch, surgeon to St. Thomas' Hospital, and physician to the Prince of Wales in 1807, condemned the vaccine theory, and declared it to be no prophylactic from infection. Mosely, Moore, and other names known to every medical man, also declared the theory fallacious.  Dr. Bayard, in a report to Parliament, calls Vaccination "a crime against nature." Dr. Longstaffe, a prominent physician of Edinbro', speaks of it as "this monstrous fraud." Professor En- nemoser, an eminent German practitioner, says of it - "A MORE INFERNAL MYSTIFICATION THEWORLD HASNEVER EXPERIENCED SINCE ITS EXISTENCE !"  These extracts will be sufficient for the purpose, but I can assure the reader that I could fill pages with further examples from men high in their profession in France, England, Italy, Germany, Sweden, the United States, and elsewhere, who have strenuously protested, and are protesting against this extraordinary barbarism.  I may, howeverjust mention thenames of Dr. Nittenger,of Stutt- gard; Steinbacher, of Munich; Frankel, of Berlin; Hermann, of Vienna (see Appendix E); Carl Otto, of Copenhagen; Henri Favre, editorofia France Medicare; ClotarMuller,of Leipzig; Wegeler, of Cologne; Prof. Hamernick, of Prague; Dr. Caplin, M.D.,F.R.S.L.; Dr. Mitchell; Dr. Hitchman, M.D., D.C.L.; Dr. Forbes Laurie'; Prof. Hochstetter, of Esling; Dr. Verde de Lisle; Dr. Siljestrom, of Sweden ; Girandeau de St. Gervais ; Dr. Schlegel, of Altenburg Saxony; Dr. Skelton, L.S.A, L.R.C.P, Edin, L.M.; Dr. Ancelon| Count Ledtwitz, of Vienna; Dr. W. Wagstaffe; Dr. Sexton, M.D., M.A., F.R.G.S., F.Z.S. ; Dr. Capadose, of the Hague, one of the oldest physicians in Holland ; and Dr. J. Emery Coderre, Pro- fessor at the School of Medicine and Surgery at Montreal, and Faculty of Medicine at the Victoria University. See Appendix ( C.) The following Russian physicians have also expressed themselves as opposed, and in 1869 published a protest against the compulsory   21  law: - D. Lambl, Professor of Pathologic Anatomy; A. Dudukalov, Chief Physician of the Government Hospitals; P. Jasinsky, President of the Institution for Midwifery; A. Pitra, Professor of Juristic Medicine; V. Laszkevicz, Professor of Therapeutic Clinic; and W. Grube, Professor and Director of Chirurgical Clinic.  When quoting some of the facts produced in this paper, I have several times heard the objection raised, " Oh, but that must be dreadfully exaggerated; / have been vaccinated, and am no worse for it, and my children have been done and they enjoy excellent health." I have reminded such reasoners that we can- not judge on either side in such a matter, from individual experiences ; and the fact of thousands of persons being ap- parently no worse for the operation does not affect the arguments deduced from the unquestionable fact that thousands of persons are the worse for it, just as the fact that thousands of persons habitually take intoxicating drinks without apparent injury, by no means affects the import of the undoubted fact that tens of thousands of persons are annually killed by it. Because entire generations of soldiers die a natural death, the number of those who have been murdered on the battle field is, in consequence, no fewer, their sufferings no less terrible, the tears shed for them no less bitter. It is the injury that has been inflicted that must be estimated, not the immunity that may be enjoyed.  Strong healthy children, and grown-up persons also, no doubt, in a large number of cases, throw off the effects of having their blood poisoned, though it strikes me very forcibly that the con- clusion that no injury has been produced, is often much too hastily drawn. And this brings to mind one or two points that, in the consideration of the statistical side of the question, have, I think, been much neglected.  Even if proof was offered that Vaccination was a protection, have not those who produced it made unjustifiable use of the argument ? Is not the fact very much overlooked that the refusal to submit to this rite prevails more largely among the poor than any other class, and is perhaps, as a rule, most common in the most neglected neighbourhoods of our large towns ? Now, if Vaccination had never been heard of, the people living in such unsanitary places are just those who would at any rate fall the readiest prey to the attacks of smallpox. This circumstance must entirely alter the estimate of every impartial observer, and   22  would alone account for the death-rate from smallpox being highest among the unvaccinated. But our average medical wise- acres are much too confident and self-satisfied to pay the slightest attention to a reflection so obvious.  Another reflection signally obvious, equally ignored, is " the truism that weakly infants, who cannot be subjected to the risk of Vaccination are, if they survive, more likely to succumb to an epidemic of any kind than those who, proving strong enough to resist one poison, may also better resist another." (xxi.) If such infants (and they are sadly numerous) succumb under an attack of smallpox eruption, they are entered by the registrar in the column of the unvaccinated deaths, and brought forward, forsooth, as weakening the case of the Anti-Vaccinators. Could anything be more illogical and preposterous !  When one finds people deceived by such transparent misrepre- sentations, one is tempted to join in the cynical exclamation of Thomas Carlyle, "The preponderance of blockheads is so extreme !"  Again, it is notorious, that in making up the tabular statement at the hospitals, those cases are generally, if not always, entered as unvaccinated, where the scar has been obliterated, although instances have been frequently cited where the trace of the in- cison has been lost in the course of years. This is most unfair, and is another illustration of an animus that is infinitely more anxious to damage an opponent and support a theory, than to attain the truth. And when we add to all this the patent fact, - a fact admitted indeed by Dr. Farr, in the Registrar-General's Report for 1870, - that in all these statistics the numerous deaths directly resulting from Vaccination but registered as erysipelas, diarrhoea, eczema, syphilis, &c, are never even so much as hinted at, who is not filled with righteous indignation ?  All these important features in the case should be resolutely borne in mind, as they not merely modify but entirely reverse the conclusions drawn from tables of mortality by the impervious official mind, and by those not accustomed to the scrutiny of documents of this nature.  Humboldt very forcibly observes that "a presumptuous scepticism which rejects facts without examination of their truth, is, in some respects, more injurious than an unquestioning credulity." Unfortunately, in this controvery, we have both of these follies to grapple with.  Foiled by the irrefragable facts produced, the advocates of Jen- nerism sometimes helplessly stumble on the suggestion that the injury has arisen from the want of " pure lymph." Pure lymph,  (xxi.) See a Letter from T. Baker, Esq., in the Cosmopolitan, August 1st, 1872.   23  indeed ! the very name is a lie. All decayed animal matter is poison ; vaccine virus is matter which, when inserted, is in a state of putrefaction, and therefore a poison. The phrase "pure lymph" has no place in science, although it has in the mouths of those who pretend to teach the people; "but they might as well," as Mr. Pickering observes, "speak of 'pure' or 'healthy' corruption, and inoculate us with the virus from a dead body as a prophylac- tic against death itself. Such doctrines are heathenish; they  belong strictly to the lowest strata of quackery, and are utterly unworthy of the temper and spirit of the age." (xxii.)  An affecting instance of the utter failure of Vaccination in pre- venting smallpox has very recently occurred in the Bristol Orphan Homes. In the thirty-third report, by George Mtiller, we read as follows: - "It has pleased the Lord to lay upon us during the past year, the heavy trial of allowing the smallpox to enter among the orphans, though every child under our care has been vaccinated;" and again: - " In the early part of January, 1872, it pleased the Lord to allow the smallpox to enter the  New Orphan House, No. 5 In No. 1 there have been up to  July 26th, 1872, seven cases and one death; in No. 2 ninety cases and three deaths ; in No. 3 ninety-five cases and eight deaths ; in No. 4 one case and one death ; and in No. 5 one hundred cases and five deaths." In all, 293 cases and 18 deaths. Some may hazard the assertion that if these 293 person had not been vac- cinated a larger number would have died ; but in a pamphlet pub- lished by Isaac Massey, (xxiii.) Apothecary to Christ's Hospital, London, in the year of 1723, - when all persons were necessarily unvaccinated, since Vaccination was first performed in 1796, - he writes: - "The children of Christ's Hospital are generally a flux body of about 900 or more ; and I affirm that in that place not one out of fifty have died these last 20 years of that distemper, and but one the last nine years of the smallpox, although near 600 have been constantly in the house, and I believe some hun- dreds have been down of it." Dr. Wagstaffe, writing at the same period, states respecting smallpox in children, that the fatality amounted to " hardly one in a hundred cases." (xxiii.)  Comparing, then, present experience with that of 1 50 years ago, the only logical conclusion to be drawn is, as Mr. G. S. Gibbs observes, that if Vaccination has any influence at all on  smallpox , it is to make it not less but more fatal; and this conclusion agrees with the report of Dr. Grieve, of the Hampstead Hospital, on the practice of vaccinating persons already seized with the smallpox, namely, that after careful experiment he found it " worse than useless."   (xxii.) Vital Statistics, by J. Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.S.S., &c.  (xviii.) I am entirely indebted to Mr. G. S. Gibbs F.S.S., for these references.   24  Dr. Collins observed, that at the camp at Shorncliffc, when the smallpox broke out, many of the re-vaccinated soldiers died- or at least had arms amputated- in consequence of Vaccination. The same observation, made by Louis Napoleon, at Chalons, prompted him to forbid re-vaccination; and after the same pro- cess upon the Federal prisoners in Camp Sumptor, Georgia, in 1864, no less than 10,000 died, (xxiv.)  It is sometimes said that the nurses in the smallpox Hospitals had been re-vaccinated and had escaped ; this assertion has been often reiterated, but it was disposed of by Mr. Marson in his evidence, who stated that most, if not all of such nurses had been previous patients in the Hospital - that is, had recently had  smallpox . It has also been stated that the navy has kept free from the disease by reason of its rigorous Jennerian regulations, but there is not a naval station, there is not a ship in Her Majesty's service, in which there has not been smallpox after re-vaccination, (xxv.) The late Sir Eardley Culling, it is well known, died from the effects of re-vaccination.  Driven from point to point, the Jennerites often fall back as the assertion that their favorite rite if it does not prevent, at any rate mitigates the attack of smallpox. But people do not die of mitigated attacks. Such shallow reasoners should study the evidence from Paris, Berlin, and elsewhere, which I have already commented on. And according to the official reports of the Lon- don smallpox Hospital, the number of patients who had been vaccinated had been steadily increasing until in 1871 it reached 91 percent. So far indeed from smallpox being "entirely pre- ventible" by cowpox inoculation, it was frankly admitted by The Lancet, of July 28th, 1866, that "The sooner it is understood that Vaccination is not an absolute protection against the  smallpox , the better."  The Lancet, of January 21st, 1871, states in a leading article that "From the early part of the century cases of smallpox after Vaccination have been increasing, and now amount to four-fifths of the cases." Mr. George S. Gibbs, of Darlington, has found from returns made to Parliament by the late Poor-law Board, and the   (xxiv.) Researches upon Spurious Vaccination, by Dr. Joseph Jones, Professor of Physiology and Pathology at the University of Nashville, Tennessee.  (xxv.) In the six years, 1859 to 1864, the deaths from smallpox per million in the army was S4, and in the navy it is recorded at 230, which is three times that of the general civil population for the same period. (See Dr. Seaton's Handbook.) What a bitter reflection is this upon the assertions of the profession! "Look at our navy," exclaims Mr. Simon, "every man re-vaccinated." " Look at our army," exclaims the Medical Staff Officer, "re-vaccinated every three years," and constituting, according to Dr. Seaton, " a perfectly protected population." !   25  late Medical Department of the Privy Council, that but 65-5 per cent, of the English people are vaccinated ; that is, not quite two- thirds. Now, as these two-thirds furnish four-fifths of the  smallpox  cases that occur amongst us, while the unvaccinated one- third furnish but one-fifth of such cases, it is as manifest as figures can render it, that the vaccinated are twice as susceptible of  smallpox  an the unvaccinated.  This irresistible argument, based on unimpeachable returns, was, I believe, first suggested by Mrs. Hume-Rothery, about two years ago. It has been found by pro-vaccinators an inexpressibly tough one, and has never been overturned.  I am anxious to keep this paper within as brief limits as pos- sible, but there are still two or three observations which have an important bearing on the discussion.  A year or two ago a pamphlet of 74 pages, entitled " Plain Facts on Vaccination," by G. Oliver, was extensively circulated. Its shallow specious blundering was thoroughly exposed at the time in a clever criticism by Rev. Wm. Hume-Rothery. In speaking of the statistics from the smallpox Hospital, Hamp- stead, Mr. Oliver, however, makes a very striking admission. He says : - " The number of the unvaccinated patients, up to the age of 10 years, greatly preponderates over the vaccinated of corres- ponding ages. Beyond that period of life it diminishes, until at the age of 40 years only 4 unvaccinated persons are admitted. The Registrar-General, in his report for 1 870, also points out that the danger of dying from smallpox diminishes, "which," he says, " could not be the case if the effect of Vaccination wore out with time." What is the plain English of this ? Does not this state- ment of the Registrar-General prove to every unprejudiced mind the very opposite conclusion to that which he arrives at? Do not Mr. Simon and his satellites, by proclamations from the Privy Council Office, inform us that the effects from Vaccination wear out, and that, therefore, re-vaccination is necessary and impera- tive ? Therefore, in their own showing, as age advances, the effects of Vaccination and also of re-vaccination must wear out. And yet we have the statement, on the best authority, that the greater the age, the less danger of dying from smallpox. Does not this interpretation of facts show that Vaccination is a delusion and a snare ? If ever there was a reductio ad absurdum, surely it is here.  It may be said to the Anti-vaccinators, what, then, do you propose to do to stamp out the smallpox ? The answer is simple ; carry out sanitary reform ; inculcate cleanliness in house, in habit, and in person ; adopt the wisest hygienic treatment, and sweep away for ever this legalised system of pollution, this   " breach in Nature for ruin's wasteful entrance." Dr. Southwood Smith gave it as his "opinion " That sanitation would remove smallpox off the face of the earth ;" and Miss Nightingale, than whom we can quote no greater authority, says:- "Every one who knows anything of public health questions will agree as to the practical unity of epidemics, and their determining causes ; and that exemption from all alike must be sought for not by any one thing, such as Vaccination, but by inquiring into and removing the causes of epidemic susceptibility generally."  If men live in unclean habits, eat unclean food, breathe impure air, and soak themselves with alcoholic poison, we cannot be sur- prised at their falling a ready prey to the destroyer ; and, until the people are educated up to a proper sanitary mode of living, epidemics must recur. Dr. Wolff, in a recent work, (xxvi.) ex- plodes the absurd and materialistic theories of poison germs, and The Lancet, in a review of the work, makes these sensible remarks : - " If this hypothesis be true we shall cease to regard disease as an entity. A new impulse will be given to sanitary regulations, because it will be seen how vain it is to stamp out one form of disease, whilst the causes still remain that must inevitably lead to its speedy re-appearance in the same or some cognate form." It is a noteworthy fact, and bears directly on the subject, that in the Metropolitan Association's Model Dwellings, which are situated in the midst of the fever nests of London, and with a denser population to the same area than in the surrounding dis- trict, but fitted up with all sanitary appliances, the mortality has been only i per thousand, whereas in the whole of London it was 2\. It has been said that John Howard got rid of the gaol fever, and the same civilizing influences, developed as they ought to be, will stamp out smallpox, which must go the same road as black- death, the sweating sickness, and the plague.  Many persons have very exaggerated fears of the prevalence and the danger of smallpox. During the last thirty-three years, during which we have had three or four epidemics of smallpox, two of them - 1838 and 1871 - of overwhelm- ing virulence, the average number of deaths from measles and whooping cough are both materially greater than those from smallpox. The actual numbers are as follows :  Average Annual Deaths in England, 1838 - 71,  From Whooping-cough 9704  " Measles 8402  " smallpox S470  Compared with others, smallpox is by no means an intractable disease, and may indeed be spoken of as "a more beneficent form  (xxvi.) The Correlation of Zymotic Diseases, by Dr. Wolff, F.R.C.S. (Churchill.)   27  of epidemic, yielding a greater proportion of recoveries to attacks than probably any other." That this is so is proved by the fact that when ever smallpox prevails, the general death-rate is low. Thus, in the six months, March to September, 1872, during and following the severest smallpox epidemic of the century, the total mortality in London has been no less than 4582 below the average of the last ten years. " smallpox, therefore," it has been well observed, "ought by no means to be made the subject of popular panic, and never would have been so, had not blundering treatment formerly produced that marking so inimical to personal vanity, but which is now seldom, and ought never to be seen." (xxvii.)  In the dreadful epidemic of 1 871, the total mortality from  smallpox  in England and Wales was 22,907, which, after all the boast- ings of the vaccinaphobiasts, is the most fatal year in the present century. Well may they quail before the tremendous significance of the facts of the past two or three years, and well may the faith of the people in their shibboleth be rudely shaken, (xxviii.)  One little fact, which has been oozing out in two or three quar- ters lately, shows indeed very clearly that the faculty are them- selves beginning to lose faith in their pet nostrum, namely, that some of them are so much afraid of the possible consequences from the use of the vaccine virus, that they are using instead glycerine, and other substances ! I have it on the authority of a poor-law inspector, that some leading physicians in Yorkshire fre- quently use glycerine to avoid risk, and if necessary I can privately produce evidence to prove that such is the case, and not only in Yorkshire, but elsewhere. Could anything be said to  (xxvii.) Paper read before the Health Section of the Social Science Congress, Sep., 1872, by T. Baker, Esq., author of "The Laws relating to Public Health." A reference to the following Table will show that in a given period of three years while smallpox killed 20,000, scarlatina killed 78,000 : -  Causes of Death in the Three years, 1863 - 4 - 5 :  1. smallpox 20059  2. Measles 28,234  3. Scarlatina 77.875  4. Whooping Cough 28,492  5. Typhus 61,157  6 Phthisis 157,852  7. Bronchitis ... 107,422  8. Pneumonia 7 I > I 4°  9. Convulsions 79. 112  It will be seen that 6, 7, and 8, three forms of chest disease, killed in the aggregate above 336,000, while smallpox killed just over 20,000. It will also be observed that scarlatina destroyed a thousand more lives than the aggregate of smallpox, measles, and whooping-cough. "If," says Dr. Pearce, "smallpox purifies the body of those who have it naturally saving them from strumous taint, while Vaccination increases the liability to consumption, no wonder that the mortality from the latter cause is increasing."  (xxviii.) For complete Tables of Mortality see Appendix (A.)   28  show more clearly the hollowness and the shame of this enormous sham !  Surely the day is not far distant when the medical faculty will be impeached at the bar of public opinion, as the abettors, not only of the most intolerable quackery, but of perhaps the most mischevious delusion and the most tyrannical law of modern times.  I have scarcely touched upon the legal aspect of the question, but from what I have said it will be evident that I regard the Compulsory Vaccination Act as a monstrous tyranny - a crime against God and man - which it is the duty of every honest citizen to disobey and resist, (xxix.) Laws which ordain usages contrary to our paternal instincts are unnatural, and those which oppress the conscience are unjust. This law does both, and it must be repealed without delay. It does more. It is unconsti- tutional ; for it is obvious that it is opposed to the true genius of English law to fine a man repeatedly for one and the same offence. Where is our boasted freedom - where the liberty of the subject - when parents, at the instigation of paid and hireling in- formers, are - if they do not or cannot afford repeated fines or imprisonment - reluct? at ly, and with sorrowing hearts, compelled to submit their children to the poisoned lancet, and to have in- serted in the pure fountain of life the disgusting and impure products of a disease of the brute creation ? Surely, to make a healthy child a diseased one, in order to avert a supposed future contingency, is a violation of the laws of Providence ; and to say that a healthy child is a dangerous being until perfected by cow- pox is nothing less than blasphemy. When disease shall produce health: corruption, incorruption : darkness, light: - then, and not before, may we hope to root out smallpox by Vaccination. Further, for the State to undertake to decide upon, and by penal- ties seek to enforce the adopting of a particular medical theory, above all, a theory involving a violation of parental rights and an outrage on "the human form divine," - is going altogether beyond its office, and rendering itself insufferable. From priestcraft we have suffered enough in the past, but, if we do not take care we may, from doctor-craft- from Contagious Diseases Acts,  vaccination tion Acts, and other unrighteous and inhuman laws, be in danger of suffering far more. Professor Newman has well observed that the State may assault our bodies in two cases ; first, if we are criminals; only the crime must not be a fanciful one arbitrarily created by law. Secondly, if one of us have a contagious disease the law may j ustly take precautions against him. But when we are in health, to pretend that our health is dangerous to our fellow-   (xxix.) See Appendix (D.)   citizens is an absurdity: to legislate against full health is atrocity. Justly may the State forbid infusing a disease : but to command the infusion of disease is sin and crime. " Such conduct makes law hateful, and looses the bands of loyalty and patriotism. It is hard to speak of such legislation as it deserves. But in fact it was carried in the dead of night; no doubt in an empty house. Such is the disgraceful stealth by which medical artfulness com- passes its despotic objects. Once enacted, countless martyrdoms are needed before an over-worked Parliament will rescind a bad law. The men who do those things are incendiaries of revolu- tion." (xxx.)  I have, however, already written at much greater length than I originally intended, but the question is an urgent and most impor- tant one, and many subjects closely connected with it, have pressed forward for consideration. Some of them - such as sani- tary regulations, the State establishment of medicine, the enormous number of deaths from consumption, and the sad and fearful increase in infant mortality, I have merely touched upon, although all of them, in my opinion, intimately connected with the subject in hand, and imperiously demanding free, searching, and unpre- judiced investigation.  Within the limits I assigned to myself I have, however, done my best. I believe Vaccination to be a huge imposture, and an infinite source of mischief, disease, and death. I have collected and arranged the evidence by which I myself have attained this conviction, and I earnestly and fearlessly submit the case to every honest seeker after truth.  There never yet was wrong redressed, or right secured, but by the persevering efforts of those who were at first in the minority. By their earnestness seeming mountains of abuse have been levelled, crooked ways made straight, and imaginary lions on the path overcome. In conclusion, then, I can only ask those who share the same convictions, to take their part in this struggle, and, for the sake of outraged and suffering humanity, do everything that lies in their power, by word and deed, to break the neck of this iniquity, and banish it from the kingdom for ever.   (xxx.) Kmeritus Professor Francis W. Newman.   30   APPENDIX.  A.- TABLES  Showing the annual mortality from smallpox in England in three periods : (i) before the enactment of any Vaccination laws; (2) after Vaccination was provided gratuitously, but was not obligatory; and (3) and (4) since Vaccination has been obligatory.   Division i. Before the enact- ment of any Vac-  Division 2. Vaccination pro- vided gratuitously,  Division 3.  Vaccination obli- gatory.  Division 4. Vaccination obli- gatory.  cination Laws.  but not obligatory.   No. of   No. of   No. of  Year.  No. of  \ ear.  Deaths.  Year 1841  Deaths.  A ear.  Deaths.  Deaths.  1838  16,268  6,368  1S54 1 2,808  1S63  5,964  1839  9.'3I  1842  2,715  1855  2,525  1864  7,684  1840  io,434  1847  4,226  1856  2,277  1865  6,411    1848  6,903  1857  3,936  1866  3,029    1849  4.645  1858  6,460  1867  2,513    1850  4,666  1859  3,848  1868  2,052    1851  6,997  1S60 2,749  1869  1,565    1852  7,3 2 °  1861 1 1,320  1870  2,620    1853  3,i5i  1862  1,628  1871  1872  22,907 18,859  Average "i Annual > Deaths . )         11.944   5.221   3,061   7.36o   N.B. - No Returns were published for 1843 - 4 - 5 - 6. 1844 was an Epidemic.  To assist in drawing sound conclusions from these Tables, it is necessary to remember that from 1796 to 1825 there was not any epidemic of smallpox in London. In 1825 it raged with some violence, but from 1825 to 1838 the death-rate from smallpox was low, but no correct or complete returns are to be had pre- vious to 1838. It is at least probable that if we had complete returns from 1831 to 1 840, the average annual deaths would be considerably less than half the number that appears in Division I.  The greater part of this Table was published in 1864 by the Epidemiological Society, in a "Report of the smallpox and Vaccination Committee." The Committee attribute the diminished mortality from smallpox to compulsory Vaccination, closing their account with 1861, which is the year of lowest mortality, in their Table. How will the Committee account for the sub- sequent increase of mortality from smallpox under the same compulsory law? In 1863 the mortality amounted to 5,964; and it rose to 7,684 in 1864, which was the most fatal year in regard to smallpox for twenty-four years, and to 22,907 in 1871, which is the most fatal year this century.   31  If Vaccination be really " protective," and if the gradual diminution of the mortality from smallpox down to the year 1 86 1 was consequent on Vaccination having been made compul- sory, how and why was the mortality of 1864 from that disease 6,364 in excess, and that of 1871, 21,587 in excess of the mortality of 1 861 ?  How is it that the addition of eleven subsequent years to the Table compiled by the Committee makes such a material differ- ence (an increase of 2,031) in the average annual mortality since Vaccination was made compulsory? The average of these eleven years, that is from 1861 to 1872, exceeds by upwards of sixteen hundred a year, the average mortality of the nine years in Division 2. Can the Committee, the Epidemiological Society, Dr. Simon, or any other advocate of Vaccination, harmonize these discrepancies ?   B.- WORKS CONSULTED.  Hand-book of Vaccination, by Dr. Seaton.  Dictionary of Practical Medicine, by Dr. Copland.  The Life of Edward Jenner.  The Reports of the Registrar-General.  Evidence given before a Select Committee of the House of Commons, 1871.  Report on Vaccination, presented by the Imperial Academy of Medicine,  at Paris, translated by George S. Gibbs, F.S.S. Moore's History of smallpox. The Anti- Vaccinator, for 1869 - 70 - 71 - 72. Vaccination ; an Essay, by C. T. Pearce, M.D., M.R.C.S. smallpox and Vaccination, by J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D. A Free State and Free Medicine, by Do.  Vaccination, by J. Pickering, F.S.S. , F.S.A. A Hand-book of Hygiene, by G. Wilson, M.D. ; M.A. Skin Diseases, by Dr. Tilbury Fox. Essay on Vaccination, by Dr. Bayard.  Have you been Vaccinated? by W. J. Collins, M.D., M.R.C.S. Dangers of Vaccination, by T. Massey Harding, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c. Researches upon Spurious Vaccination, by Joseph Jones, M.D., Professor  of Physiology and Pathology in the Medical Department of the  University of Nashville, U.S. Vaccination a Crime, by G. Nittinger, M.D., Stuttgard. Reynold's System of Medicine.  The Correlation of Zimotic Diseases, by Dr. Wolff, F.R.C.S. Medical Freedom and Vaccination Tyranny, by Prof. F. W. Newman. Journal of the Statistical Society. The Lancet, and other Medical Journals, &c, &c.   32 .  C- Dr. Coderre and twenty-one leading Montreal practitioners have, only last year, petitioned the Health Committee of the City Council for the abolition of Compulsory Vaccination.   D. - " When it was first proposed to render Vaccination com- pulsory, Sir Robert Peel objected that such a proceeding would be opposed to the mental habits of the British people, and to the freedom of opinion in which they rightly gloried, and that, therefore, he would be no party to such compulsion. How have we fallen since that time ! Now the mass of the people submit as tamely to this despotic Act as though the voice of heaven had commanded it. Is there no spirit left in the British people that they allow themselves thus to be trampled on by a despotism a thousand times worse than a political tyranny ?" - Vaccination Useless and Injurious, a Lecture, by George Sexton, M.A., M.D., &c.   E. - Dr. Josef 'Hermann was head physician at the Imperial Hospital, Vienna, from 1858 to 1864. In the Naturarzt, a, scientific journal of that city, he has recently published a long article, in which he says : - " My experience of smallpox during those six years of bedside attendance has given me the right, or rather has imposed on me the duty, of taking part in the bold and spirited onslaught on Vaccination, which is now being carried on in  Switzerland, Germany, England, and other countries I am  convinced that Vaccination is the greatest mistake and delusion in the science of medicine ; a fanciful illusion in the mind of the discoverer ; a phenominal apparition devoid of scientific founda- tion, and wanting in all the conditions of scientific possibility."  The whole article is worthy of careful study. A vigorous translation of it appears in the Anti- Vaccinator for February 15th, 1873, to which I refer the reader. That journal says of it : - " He who can read and reflect upon it without losing his faith in Vaccination, must have a judgment and a conscience as impermeable as a clot of molten lead."  I take this opportunity of earnestly recommending the Anti- Vaccinator ; it is edited in a very able manner by John Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.S.S., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds, and published fortnightly, at a penny, by F.. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London. Orders to be addressed to the office of the Anti- Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds.   Newcastle: Printed by J. M. Carr, Borough and County Printing Works, 2t, Low Friar Street 