Edited Pickering, Leeds. New Series. | London : F. PITMAN, 20, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C. INTRODUCTION. INSTEAD of writing an elaborate article in defence of the arguments and gery] propositions advanced in this Journal, the Editor proposes, for the convenience of the Reader, to summarise the views and opinions put forth and enforced in the following pages. They are, briefly, as follows :- 1.-That the mortality from smallpox since 1798 has diminished in consequence of the discontinuance of inoculation, and, further, by the carrying out of great and important sanitary reforms throughout the country, and that it is not attributable to vaccination. 2.-That the companion diseases of smallpox during the middle ages were the black death, the sweating sickness, and the slags : that these last named diseases have disappeared before the spread of sanitary science, and without any corresponding rite to inoculation or vaccination ; and that the smallpox would have disappeared ages ago if - it had not been continued amongst us by artificial means, such as those involved in EN eT Ces ee a TE eC a a 7 7 q " ' : inoculation and vaccination. All being diseases of the same type, and having their origin in the same causes, equally share in the improved sanitary conditions of the * The Editor begs to inform the Reader, that the first eight numbers only were published under the joint Editorship of himself and Mr. Henry Pitman, of Manchester; but the whole of the introductory and leading articles (with the exception of the "Greeting," at p.8) were written by the present Editor, and for the opinions expressed therein he is solely responsible. lV. Introduction. country, and synchronously disappear, or ought to do, when the causes which brought them into existence have been abated or removed. disease is multiplied and intensified in the present day by vaccination: forasmuch as in both rites the actual germs of smallpox (the base of the virus) are communicated directly to the blood, ' which is the life." 4.-That blood inoculation, either as a preventive or a modifying agent of any 3.-That just as smallpox was increased and propagated by inoculation, so that disease, is false in principle and pernicious in practice. Inoculation for scrofula, syphilis, and measles, have all been tried, and abandoned on the fullest proof that the inoculated disease was worse than the natural disease, and that the inoculation neither prevented nor modified a second attack. The teaching of the faculty on this point is a fallacy of the worst type. 5,-That vaccination is a folly and a crime; that it is not a prophylactic against smallpox, but on the contrary produces its like (¢.e. smallpox); and in addition to this, it is a fearful engine of destruction and death, by communicating, along with the vaccine virus, other diseases, all equally lethal, and which are yearly on the increase. The smallpox of to-day is the plague of vaccination. 6.-That, admitting the annual saving in smallpox deaths as compared with the mortality of the last century (which was occasioned principally by inoculation), yet other diseases of the same type have so increased-some of which are traceable to vaccination- that the high death-rate from zymotic diseases, instead of diminishing, is actually increasing upon the average of former years; so that instead of a saving there is not only a displacement, but a steady increase in the death-rate of the nation. 7.-The death-rate of the nation follows the vaccination-rate and the pay-rate ! Without vaccination the smallpox would disappear altogether in a few years; the ~ A LL A OC A RC eg so by = introduction. V. death-rate would decrease, and there would be an annual saving of 50,000 or 80,000 lives per annum; and the healthy conditions of infant-and consequently adult-life would be benefited in a marvellous and prodigious degree. 8.-That other diseases, such as scrofula, syphilis, scabies, mania, leprosy, &c. (in fact, all blood diseases), are communicable by vaccination; and are propagated to a very considerable extent by that abominable and monstrous practice. 9.-That all decayed animal matter is poison. That vaccine virus is matter which has lived, is dead, and when inyaccinated is in a state of putrefaction ; and, therefore, a poison. 10.-That Jenner's teaching is-that the vaccine virus is obtained from a disease in the horse called ''the grease." Whether that is the source or not, or whether it comes from a disease in the cow, or from the human subject in smallpox, is equally objectionable. The virus is putrid animal matter; and he who inoculates the blood of a living healthy organism therewith, and on whatever pretence, is a self-deceiver, an ; impostor, or a knayve ! 11.-That the quarrel between us and the Vaccinators must be continued to the ; placed it beyond the power of the Legislature or the profession to enforce or continue an observance like vaccination, which is opposed to all our instincts, as it is opposed to the dictates of common sense, and of the simplest principles of the laws of nature :-'' Who Pa. es can bring a clean thing out of an unclean?" 12.-That exemption from epidemics of smallpox, cholera, and other diseases of the zymotic class, is not to be found in vaccination, or any practice so barbarous and | bitter end; and that our recompense will hereafter appear in the fact-that we have absurd; but in the enforcement and extension of wise sanitary regulations, such as a ne a a in a aC | vi. Introduction. better habitations for the people, pure water, good food, defoecation of sewage, perfect drainage, and in inculcating amongst all classes of the community habits of personal and domestic cleanliness. In conclusion, the Eprror feels called upon to express his thanks to the Countess NoartitEes, Proressor F. W. Newman, his correspondent " D," Dr. GartH WiLkInson, Dr. CopErre, and to all those other friends who have in so many ways assisted him in his work. Most of all are his thanks and gratitude due to the great Author of all Being, for that He should have deemed him worthy to take so prominent a part in this controversy, and to bear public testimony against an unnatural rite which is the grossest delusion of the age in which his lot is cast, and the most monstrous piece of superstition of modern times, ERRATA, Page 80.-fFor ''See p. 71," read-'' See p. 69." " 138.-for 'The very earnestness of these prosecutions are," read-"The very earnestness of these productions is." v 181.-for 'arcades acuto," read-'' arcades ambo." y 281, 14th line.-Jor '25 per cent.," read-'' 50 per cent." | WELLCOME INSTITUT LIBRARY The Anti-V accinator, and  . a Edited by John Pickering, F.8.8., Springfield Mount, Leeds, and Henry Pitman, Phonetic Institute, 41, John Dalton Street, Manchester. Published Forinighily, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. Kes All Communications to be sent to the Editors, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. I. New Series. April 18, 1872. Price One Penny. Registered for Transmission Abroad, Contents, Page Address to the Reader............ ator eas lepers il Compulsory Vaccination opposed to Science IAG MEP CSUOMM, Cock, feo tes oide ere Saver Porereareo Medical Statistics in Leeds Refuted ........ 4, Letter from Dr. Garth Wilkinson .......... 6 SmalePox Im Ohicaro fences etree ss it The Anti-Vaccinator-Greeting: Poor Punch! 8 ENGO BOS mee retebars sea feotees Valeo Sieve cious el aisle rd ara haes aes 8 Letter to the Chancellor of the Exchequer... 9 Return of Cases in smallPox Hospital, Leeds 10 smallPox Statistiesim Leeds ...........0.il Charles Washington Nye ....t.s0....005 5) ales Smale Pox tm) Mia 65). S66. ss Seige "Selec 13 News: London, Chesterfield, Preston........ 14 Death of a Child from Vaccination ........ 14 Naccimation! Prose eulions: s. cieles esis sicie sien ee 15 Richard Butler Gibbs ..2%.0..0. ayeleieraie pens sts 16 Answers to Correspondents .......... svaetotexs 16 Anvress to the Reaver, The issue of the New Series of the Anti-vaccinator occurs under much more favourable circumstances than those which attended its predecessor. It is supported by a guarantee fund for three years; and it is presumed that if there should be any cause to continue it beyond that period, the Journal may reasonably be expected to be self-supporting, as it will then have had ample time to gather round it a good business connection, and to secure for itself an extensive circulation. The Editors have deemed it wise to extend the title of the paper, and to include within its | scope the discussion of all measures which affect -= the public health, such as the ventilation of sewers, dwelling-houses, and public buildings; utilisation of sewage, water supply, imperfect drainage of houses, public baths, adulterated and diseased food, and other cognate questions, which are now absorbing the attention not only of the legislature, and of corporate bodies, but of great numbers of the thinking population. And it must be borne in mind that although the leading object of the paper, and of its supporters, is to do battle with the gigantic evils arising to the nation from the practice of Vaccination, yet the careful study of the important subjects above referred to has a direct and distinct bearing upon the question. We have to teach the people that their safety from ali diseases of the zymotic type consists in personal and domestic cleanliness, and in measures of sanitary reform; and is not to be found in nostrums, and so-called prophylactics, whether taught by Jenner or by any of his disciples. All facts and information which illustrate these ideas, will lessen the confidence of the people in vaccination, the practice of which is a disgrace to the age in which we live. Since the discontinuance of the Anti-Vaccinator, in December last, the friends of the movement have not been idle. Public meetings have been held in many large towns, resulting in the establishment of active branches of the League. Prosecutions have been more frequent; and parents have resisted the law even to imprison-~ 2   ment, and the ''spoiling of their goods.' In towns where the local papers were accessible to correspondence, many interesting communications from Anti-vaccinators have appeared. The agitation, on the whole, has never been in so healthy a condition as it is at the present moment. We have letters from members living in the remotest corners of the land, announcing their intention of making common cause with the object we have in view. All past experience with regard to the agitation of great public questions has shown that facts and statements which the promoters first enunciated, received confirmation as fresh inquiries were instituted, and as better information was obtained. It is even thus with vaccination. It has been asserted that a very large majority of smallpox cases, varying from 85 to 95 per cent., are furnished by the '' vaccinated" portion of the community; and although the mortality amongst the '' unvaccinated" patients is greater in proportion to their numbers than amongst the '' vaccinated," yet that circumstance is accounted for on other grounds than simply that of their being '' unvaccinated." The fact is coming out that the '' unvaccinated" are really cases which have been certified '' unfit for vaccination." The recent investigation into 74 cases at the Leeds Hospital, establishes both of the statements to a remarkable degree, whilst it confirms suspicions we have long entertained as to the untrustworthiness of medical statistics in general. The particulars connected with that 'investigation appear in this number of the Journal, and will do more to awaken inquiry in the minds of pro-vaccinators, than any other circumstance which has come before their notice in connection with this controversy. History repeats itself. It is just about a hundred years ago that the people ofthis land began to discover that inoculation was a terrible scourge ; and their indignation at length rose to such a pitch, that they uttered the threat-" If you do not abolish the inoculation stations we will pull them down brick by brick." From that hour inoculation was doomed; but the practice was still continued, in some districts, for many [April 15, 1872. years afterwards; and only a few years ago a solitary inoculator was discovered by the Poor- law board in Ireland. During the meetings of the Royal Medical Chirurgical Society, in May last, when the transmissibility of other diseases by vaccination was affirmed and corroborated, on the clearest evidence, Mr. John Simon, medical officer to the Privy Council, saw before him, in that doctrine, the justification for the ''mother's rebellion" which is looming in the no distant future. Wecan only hope that the members of the legislature will be wise in time ; that they will not despise the warning which finds utterance on every occasion when fines or imprisonment are imposed, and submitted to by a people who are essentially law-loving. As for the medical profession, we have no hope in that quarter: they will never discontinue the practice, nor see the mischief they produce, until the iron hand of the law shall say to them, as in the matter of inoculation-'' thou shalt not." Be it our humble occupation, from day to day, to collect and present such information to our readers aS may hasten the period when vaccination tion-the greatest scourge of the nineteenth century-shall be reckoned amongst the impostures of an age when quackery and superstition divided the spoil between them. In the science of the present day vaccination has no place. a So far as the usefulness of this Journal is concerned, much depends upon our friends, not only with regard to the accuracy of the information communicated to its pages, but especially in connection with their efforts to promote its circulation. Weurge upon all our readers, and the members of the various branch Leagues, the duty which devolves upon them to supplement the assistance they have already given, and to see to it that we lose nothing by their lack of zeal. We are jointly committed to a great cause; and whatever be the consequences, however great the demand upon our time, we must not ''look back," nor stay "'in all the plain ;" we must carry our quarrel to the bitter end: and our recompense will hereafter appear in the fact that we have placed it beyond the power of the April 15, 1872.]  . 3 legislature, or the profession, to continue a rite which is opposed to all our instincts, as it is opposed to the dictates of common sense, and of the simplest principles of the laws of nature. '*Whocan bringaclean thing out of an unclean?" We have no private interests to gain. Personally, in friendships as well as in purse, we have much to lose. Truth is our only object ; and they who go in search of that, have many difficulties to meet; nor do we wish to underestimate them. The least the passer-by can say, should be-" God speed." Compulsory Vaccination Opposed to Science and Freedom. By Emer: Professor F. W. Newman. [Substance of an Address oe at Cardiff, March 13, 1872. Tam nota medical man; but I speak as a citizen to citizens. If vaccination were not compulsory, I probably should be silent. The topics of vaccination and of compulsory vaccination are separate. There are medical men who approve the former, and disapprove the latter. I am reluctant to seem to attack the medical faculty. Many physicians I esteem and our; but when a medical sect usurps authority, we are forced to oppose. ~ Compulsory vaccination sins grossly -/irst, against science; secondly, against freedom. I must speak of these heads separately. First: no science can flourish if it be enforced by the State. If Newton's astronomy were enforced, we should lose the means of knowing whether it were true. So of religion. In consequence, we all now understand that the State transeresses its limits if it enact anything in science or in religion. Equally so as to medical art. I am not yet very old; yet I remember enormous change in medical practice. About forty years ago I had 220 leeches put on me in fever, and I believe my constitution has never recovered from it. Such was the practice of that day. Blood was in general taken copiously from the arm. Also in apoplexy, cupping on the temples or back of the head was used, What a horrible mischief it would have been if Parliament had enacted bleeding as compulsory, so as to sustain if when practitioners desired to disuse 1t! More recently, it was the rage to give wine in typhus fever; but the tide has turned. In Longford Fever Hospital, Ireland, again in Scottish and London hospitals, alcohol is now disused; and, as reported, with excellent result. How mischieyous it would have been to pass a compulsory law twenty years ago, at the bidding of the then ascendant school of medicine, to command the giving of wine to fever patients! Hvyidently, as an astronomer and a theologian must be left free by Parliament, so musta physician. 'To enact a medical creed, or command a medical process, is usurpation, not legitimate legislation, even yiewed from the scientific side. But, next, it is a horrible atrocity viewed on the side of freedom. 'What can be more shocking than when vaccination has killed one child of a family, to compel the parents to yield up asecond child to the same treatment? What isit but murder? Nor have our representatives any more the right to forbid our learning from our neighbour's calamity. Why must I or you, who know cases in which vaccination (so-called) has either killed or crippled children, or has left general weakness,-why must we surrender even one child to the risk ? What they now call vaccination is a different thing from what it was in my childhood. To give one a cow's disease-a disease having its origin in the foul heels of a neglected horse-is disgusting enough. Nevertheless, I never heard evil from it in my younger days. But now, the putrid matter has passed from child to child for 50 years, and takes up possibly any or every disease from the blood of scores of thousands in our unhealthy classes. It is no use pretending that it can not, or that it does not, impart other foul diseases. In France, in Switzerland, and in England, it is fully proved as a fact. I was myself convinced of the infamy of this compulsory law, by the case of Tra Connell, a young man at Southport, in Lancashire, who has lost the use of both legs 4   and one arm by the horrible running sores which vaccination caused. JI have since seen him. The doctors reply-''The lymph was impure, else this could not have happened." But how will Parliament secure us against the like? Mr. John Simon, medical officer of the Privy Council, is an ardent advocate of compulsory vaccination ; and what does he say in the pamphlet which I holdin my hand? First, that a healthy child must be selected to get the lymph from; that if the operator take ever so little a drop of a child's blood on the point of his lancet, he may undoubtedly communicate every disease of that blood to the other child which is vaccinated ; therefore, the operator must beware not to dip his lancet too deep, and all will be right if he take only the lymph. Such a speech is a downright confession of abominable iniquity ; for no surgeon can know that a child is healthy, and no surgeon's hand can always be steady; nor can Parliament guarantee us against frightful failure. Besides, others insist that the lymph (#.e., the putrid matter), being formed out of the blood, has all the properties of the blood; and we have only Mr. Simon's word to the contrary. He did not see the lancet dip too deep in the unfortunate cases; itis only his theory. Another surgeon, Mr. Henry Lee, in the discussion here recorded, is full of anxiety as to the avoidance of responsibility ; and says, that surgeons must have rules given them. But who is to give them? Is Parhament to teach out of its own medical knowledge? Itis no use to shut our eyes to facts. We see, and are bound to see, the vast diversities of medical schools-allopathic, homosopathic, hydropathic, herbalist, hygiene, &c.-like sects of religion; and the grave controversies, changes, and vacillations of the ascendant allopathic school. I hold here a set of testimonies against physic by physicians. They speak more savagely than those outside dare to speak. I will read only one, from Sir Astley Cooper :-'' Medical art is founded on conjecture, and improved by murder."? We see also that a medical student, like a theological student, is put into trammels in his early youth, and learns the current tradition; and if [April 15, 1872. he dare to depart from it, he loses patronage- his elders will not act with him, and he has slender chance of pecuniary success. A London physician, eminent from his youth, estimates that on his becoming a teetotaler he lost £200 a-year. 'Thus the practitioner is biassed both by _ the routine of his seniors, and by the habits of the public. But the physiologist who does not practice, isleft free to followtruth. Physiology is undoubtedly a real science: medicine is a highly doubtful art. Common sense and science alike bid us to believe one of the first principles of physiology, viz.-that a healthy body best resists contagious disease. How absurd, then, to bid us infuse disease, that we may better avoid disease! This is moral (as well as medical) heresy-to do evil that good may come. (To be continued.) Medical Statistics in Leeds Refuted. By Jno. Pickering, F.S.8. At the meeting of the Guardians for the Leeds Union, on the 18th March last, a return of the cases admitted to the smallpox Hospital was made by the medical officers. That return was held to be so confirmatory of similar statistics throughout the country, that the Guardians ordered it to be published. The Leeds Mercury of March 16 has the following paragraph :- " smallpox in Leeds. - Return of cases admitted to the smallpox Hospital from the lst February to the 9th March, 1872 :- Admitted, 74; cured, 18; died, 16; remaining in hospital on the 9th March, 40. Successfully vaccinated, 85-of whom 1 died; imperfectly vaccinated, 23-65 died; not known whether vaccinated, 3-1 died; not vaccinated, 13-9 died." Now, it must be admitted that if the above return were true, the pro-vaccinators, so far as statistics are concerned, have the best of the case,-it is a black list against the "not vaccinated.'' I determined to investigate the return, and found a willing helper in Mr. Kenworthy, guardian, Leeds Union. We went down to the hospital, and obtained there a complete list of all the patients included in the "74; and Mr. Kenworthy was supplied by Mr. Libbey, one of the medical officers, with the names April 15, 1872.]  . 5 of the "13" unvaccinated. inquiry occupied four days; and we walked from house to house, sometimes in company and at other time alone, a distance of 60 or 60 miles, and in the worst districts of the town. We left not a stone unturned; and when we had finished our investigation, we were prepared for any inquiry, whether instituted by the Board or any one else. On the 20th March, I attended the meeting of the Board of Guardians, and in proper form presented a return of the "74" cases, a copy of which is published in this number of the journal. The report of such interview, as it appeared in the Leeds Mercury of the 21st March, is also transferred to these pages. From the report, it will be seen that the Guardians elected the somewhat humiliating position of not venturing to inquire into the accuracy of statistics furnished by their own medical officers. The public will form their own opinion as to whether they did wisely in that voting. After this, by a note to Mr. Libbey, I gave the medical officers the chance of an inquiry; and a copy of that note is now published, along with the reply. I am, therefore, relieved from any charge of unfairness in using my own report; and I mean that this thing which the medical officers have done, shall be known throughout the length and breadth of the land. From henceforth I have no confidence in medical statistics. I see where the sin is, and J will expose it; and I regret exceedingly that it falls to my lot to have it to do. I have no ill feeling with regard to the medical officers : my quarrel is with a system, a rite, which I hate and abhor: and having found their statistics at fault, I should fail in my dutyif I did not publish the result of an impartial and accurate investigation of the facts. The truth is, that of the 74 cases, 67 were vaccinated, 2 unknown, and 6 unvaccinated ; and out of the 16 deaths, there are 12 vaccinated, 2 unknown, | and 2 unvaccinated. I admit of no such distinction as "successfully vaccinated" and 'imperfectly vaccinated."" They have all been " successfully vaccinated," and paid for as such; and the reason why some show better marks than others, simply depends upon the different healing properties of the skin. According to Mr. Libbey's figures-upon his own showing-out of 58 vaccinations, 23 (or two- _ fifths) were imperfectly done. Who is at fault? Is it the operator, the lancet, or the pus? All vaccinations are " successful'? upon the certificate On the whole, the | but when patients die, it is surely a matter of great convenience to have such a scape-goat to bear away the sins of those who cannot see the folly of their '"* prophylactics."' But what of those two 'unvaccinated cases '- were they fair cases? Not at all; they were certified in infancy "unfit for vaccination." They were children of parents suffering from hereditary scrofula; the first child they had died within six weeks after 'vaccination; and Dr. Harvey, of Newcastle-under-Lyme, after that one experiment, certified all the others '" unfit" for the operation. Out of the 5 unvaccinated, 4 were certified " unfit" cases ; and the only fair case " unvaccinated" out of the whole 74, was that of a man who recovered. All these facts I can substantiate on the clearest and most undoubted testimony, and I am prepared to do it any day when called upon either by the medical officers or the Board of Guardians. I have nothing to conceal. Some singular facts were discovered by us, showing the inaccuracy of the officials who attend to the patients at the hospital; for one of the dead lies beneath the sod with another man's name on his coffin! One of the 13 unvaccinated" is living now in the town, and bears excellent marks of the "vaccination"? upon her arm: several had .been "'re-vaccinated"': and one had been " vaccinated," and had the smallpox nine years ago, and was very much pitted on that occasion, and although doubly protected, she fell a victim to the disease-or the treatment, I know not which. These facts will not say much for the "careful inquiries'? or "minute examinations '"' of the surgeons ! I have not come out of this inquiry without ascertaining exactly how these mistakes as to the "' vaccinated' and 'unvaccinated'? have been committed. I say "mistakes'"-but they deserve a different name to that. I refrain from using any harsher term. 'Patients are sent into the hospital in all stages of the smallpox; and in all cases where the surgeon in attendance receives the patient, and the condition of the patient is such as to render it practically impossible to detect the vaccination marks, it is entered "unvaccinated." We get the benefit of the doubt: and it is upon statistics compiled with such utter recklessness, that the Queen upon the throne, the Ministers of State, Parlament, and the Public, are systematically deceived. The only reason which induced me to go into this inquiry, arose from the fact that I was persuaded in my own mind there was nothing in vaccination, as a protective, to account for the marvellous difference in the mortality between cach class, as shown in Mr. Libbey's return. And now, after a careful inquiry, with a full and clear knowledge of the laws of evidence to guide me, I have turned the tables upon my opponents; and I fearlessly challenge them to dispute the correctness of the facts now made public. In the Leeds Mercury of March 22 is the return of cases from the 9th to 16th March :-* 5 admitted ; 1 successfully vaccinated, 1 imperfectly vaccinated, 2 said to be vaccinated but no visible evidence, and 1 unvaccinated." The simple truth is-that there were 4 vaccinated and 1 unvaccinated: of the 2 deaths, the return states-" of whom one was said to be vaccinated, but had no visible evidence, 1 not vaccinated." How could there be any "visible evidence" of vaccination, when the patient was in the height of the fever when admitted? And how about the '' unvaccinated'? death? The patient was a girl, the only one out of four of that family unvaccinated. A great talk was made of this case- "the only one out of 4 unvaccinated; they all had the smallpox, and she was the only one that died," said the rumour. It was singular; and but for my perseverance it would have been a stumbling-block in my path to this hour. I went to see the parents, and found that the girl was another case certified "unfit" for vaccination ; certified unfit, on account of its iilmess from birth, by Dr. Teale, of Leeds: that certificate we shall not question. In the Mercury for the 29th, is a return for the week ending March 23, equally unfavourable to the doctors and their vaccination blunder, It will be seen, from future inquiries into the inaccuracy of medical statistics-not only in Leeds, but elsewhere-that these two points will be fully established. In conclusion, the returns of the Leeds smallpox Hospital prove beyond the shadow of a doubt two important points, viz :- 1.-The vaccinated furnish nearly all the cases, and the mortality is principally supplied from their ranks. 2.-The 'unvaccinated,' whether in cases or deaths, are patients who have been certified " unfit' for vaccination-fair '' unvaccinated '' cases are not represented; ergo, to be "unvaccinated" is to be protected, and to be "vaccinated" is to be predisposed for the disease.   (April 15, 1872. Letter from Dr. Garth Wilkinson. 76, Wimpole-street, Cavendish-square, W. London, March 18, 1872. Dear Mr. Pitman,-I am glad the. Anti-vaccinator is to live again; and I hope its future state will be one of great blessing, power, and usefulness, and not costly to you as an individual. The cause is advancing towards political life and pressure. The people are being awakened to the beastly nature of vaccination ; to its doubtful good for that which it professes, the diminution of smallpox; to its sure evils in the propagation of foul diseases, and in the agerayation and bringing forth of hereditary taints. Socially, when compulsory, itis a bestial invasion of parental love and parental rights; and politically, it is a bestial invasion of the dearest rights of hearth and home. It isa bestial invasion of the State by orthodox medicine ; and by the enormity of the wrong it pollutes the minds of statesmen, and prepares them to be debauched by any experts and doctrinaires greedy of power, and sufficiently strong in clique to get near enough to the weak and already wounded State. Its lancet is the assassin of State inyiolability. Small to look at at first, and with the cloak of a proferred good over its dagger-arm, it is yet a monster of murders; and God speed those who are to arrest this dangerous and State-paid criminal, and to take him and his clique out of the world.- Yours, J.J. Garth Wilkinson. Mr, Candlish, M.P. for Sunderland, who was the first witness examined by the Vaccination Committee, said :-'*' No House of Commons would dare to pass a law to take children by violence from their parents and vaccinate them. If vaccination be a protection, the unvaccinated can do no harm; if it be not a protection, it is wrong to enforce it. There is a conscience at work in resistance to this law in the case of a large number of intelligent and respect| able persons." Mr. Mundeila, M.P., when waited upon by a deputation of Anti-vaccinators at Sheffield, said :- "" My wife recently expressed a wish that I would be re-vaccinated ; but I refused. I will not be revaccinated. I believe there must be some danger in the operation," April 15, 1872.] smallPox in Chicago. The Daily News has the good character-and deservedly so-of being usually fair and liberal in its treatment of political questions. It has the bad reputation, however-and deserves it- of partizanship and unfairness on the subject of vaccination. Time was, when, under other editorial rule, the correspondence of the late Dr. John Epps, and other warm opponents of Compulsory Vaccination, was freely admitted into its columns; but now nota line is allowed to appear in opposition to its pet virusation. No opportunity is lost, either, of exalting the 'protective virtues'? and advocating the claims of Jenner's prophylactic. The presence of smallpox in Chicago has served as a text for another homily in praise of the blood-poisoning practice. The malady (according to our contemporary) has lately appeared in the recently devastated city, and subsided with the general adoption of vaccination and re-vaccination. So great was the zeal of the authorities for cowpox inoculation, and so united were their efforts, that 'the Relief Society co-operated with the Board of Health in making re-v vaccination general." 'Nothing whatever," quoth our contemporary, ''of the contributions sent to succour the victims of the fire, was given to those who had not been vaccinated." Talk of protection, indeed, here is protection with a vengeance. Refusing to help the needy-perchance the starving-who declined todo homage to the sacred cow, or contribute towards the shrine of the golden calf! In plainer language, the sufferers are punished for the crime of shielding themselves and their children from a vile animal poison. We protest, in the name of humanity and 'benevolence, against the wretched misanthropic policy of thus dealing with funds contributed, without stint, by British philanthropy, alike by Anti-vaccinators and vaccinators, for the relief of the needy. We wondered, as we read this astounding statement, whether the chief magistrate of Chicago is a medical zealot, or whether this cruel policy had been initiated, or suggested,  . " by some other professional official. '' Tried by the results," quoth our contemporary, '' these measures merit warm praise.' Can it be possible that this eulogium is pronounced upon so tyrannous an act byan English and professedly a Liberal journal? Yes, good reader, it is even so. ''Tried by the results." In other and in Jesuistical words, ''the end sanctifies the means." This is the plain English of so bad a policy, and so bad a panegyric;-a panegyric implying a justification of tyranny and wrongdoing in general, if it be but successful. We must not, however, do our contemporary the injustice to omit that it narrates other expedients which had been employed to '' stamp out" the dreaded disease-a disease, by-the-bye, most dreaded, as a rule, by the vaccinated and vaccinating zealots, who, wise in their generation, adopt at the same time other means of prevention, and then appropriate their success to the enhancement of vaccination. The Chicago Board of Health, says the Daily News, '' set to work in a systematic way, in order to isolate those who were attacked.' 'Under heavy penalties, the proprietor or occupant of every house in which there was a smallpox patient, had to hang out a bright yellow card, a foot in length by ten inches in width, on which was printed in large type-' smallpox here. Are you vaccinated ? One result of this measure was, that no person was exposed to contagion unawares." Excellent, wo say, excepting the interrogation-'' Are you vaccinated ?" So excellent, indeed, that we have in this isolation, in this warning notice, and in the sanitary measures (which it is pretty certain were adopted by the hot vaccination authorities of the fire- purified city), quite enough to account for '' the diminution in the number of cases which rapidly followed." If we had not, however, we should still denounce the despotic and unwarrantable policy of withholding freely and unconditionally given aid, from the conscientious opponents of an operation with which thousands of the recent victims of smallpox in London had been duly (but vainly) '' protected." arg a eked 8   [April 15, 1872. the Anti-Gacetnator. -o- Apri 15th, 1872. ESreeting. Friends of Humanity! We rejoice to meet you again, as co-workers against Compulsory Vaccination; and have no doubt of receiving a hearty welcome. To Councillor Pickering, of Leeds, you are mainly indebted for this revival of the Anti-Vacctnator. Our objects are to promote public health and parental freedom by the repeal of the Compulsory Vaccination Act, which we regard both asa folly and a crime. We are certain that vaccination does not prevent smallpox; and we are equally certain that the horrid practice does propagate other and worse diseases. We have repeatedly published proofs of these statements; further arouments and' facts against vaccination will be found in the communications of Professor F.-W. Newman, Dr. Garth Wilkinson, and Councillor Pickering. Poor Punch !-What will he say to the revival of the Anti-Vaccinator? His spite- not wit-was thus vented when the publication of the Anti-Vaccinator had to be suspended :- Medical Nonconformity.-According to the Pall Mall Gazette :--"'The Birmingham News says that the ° Anti-Vaccinator, a journal started in the interest of those who dispute the efficacy of the discovery of Dr. Jenner, has disappeared, from the want of the sinews of war. In making the announcement of the paper's decease, Mr. Pitman, of Manchester, the proprietor, announces that he is compelled to abandon the concern, because it has involved him in a printer's debt of £200, which is increased by every number that is issued."" What's in a name? Suggestion, for one thing. There could hardly have been a name more suggestive for the Anti-Vaccinator than Pitman, or less auspicious. Simpletons, whom the no doubt sincerely enthusiastic, but perverse, Anti-Vaccinator may have persuaded to set themselves against vaccination, are in a condition much to be pitted. . '' Directions for Vaccination."'-Let it alone ! Mr, Disraeli, in his latest book, remarks that it is the first duty of the State to attend to the health of the people. Undoubtedly. But how ? By sanitary laws for preventing the wholesale defilement of air and streams, and by various enactments of unquestionable merit in promoting cleanliness, temperance, &c.; not in the enforcement of an exploded medical dogma for curing disease by causing disease. We have reason to hope that Mr. Disraeli is opposed to compulsory vaccination. Mr. Jacob Bright's Amendment-The hon. sec. of the Society for the Suppression of Vaccination, states, on the authority of a member of the committee, that the one-sided report was drawn up by Mr. Simon and Dr. Seaton. Mr. Jacob Bright proposed this amendment to the report:-'"* Your committee cannot recommend that vaccination should continue to be made compulsory by Act of Parliament, for the following reasons :-That the health and lives of some children are-though it may be in rare cases--undoubtedly sacrificed by it; thatsyphilis can be, and is, transmitted by vaccination ; and that children from whom the vaccine lymph is taken may be syphilitic, the doctor at the same time having no means of discovering the fact." Two other members of the committee (Mr. Candlish and Mr. Taylor) tried to record the fact upon the report that " disease has been communicated by vaccination."' The question of compulsory blood-poisoning will come before Parliament again this session ; and the agitation will not cease until State doctoring is disendowed. The Medical Times calls it '' unwise and mistaken legislation which will certainly be sooner or later abandoned."' I used to think the Anti-Compulsory Vaccination movement was a small and unimportant cause. Now I sce it is great in itself; because compulsory vaccination notches with disease the infant life of the British empire. And your cause is a presently important part of a mighty cause, which is the beating down of medical despotism, and the holding of all medicine whatever at arms-length, for the people of this country to use, or not to use, as they in their private good sense see fit. This despotism is ruining medicine itself, and converting it from its divine mission of healing, into a game of power for pelf; in short, into a terrible instrument of cruelty. A profession which desires to seek by law to override the love which parents feel for their offspring, is socially a doomed monster, and the stung heart of the country will trample it out.-J. J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D. Dr. John Rayner, of Hull, states that during the present epidemic he has treated 46 cases of smallpox, only 14 of whom have been unvaccinated. This, coupled with the fact that the doctor, being an Anti-vaccinator, would be likely to have more than his share of the unvaccinated | cases, speaks volumes.-New Era, April 15, 1872.]  . 9 Letter to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The Rev. Robt. Caven, B.A., of Southamptot, who has been three times summoned, and twie fined, for conscientiously objecting to vaccnation, has sent this statement of his case to the Reght Hon. Robert Lowe, M.P., Chancellor of theExchequer; and also to the Right Hon. W. Covper-Temple, M.P. Freemantle, Southampton, March 1, 1872. Tithe Right Hon. Robert Lowe, M.P. Dear Si-I have the honour to be one of your constituents,and a member of your committee for this neighborhood. Will you allow me to call your attentin to a matter by which many peaceable andgonscientious citizens are very much aggrieved. I tay be permitted, I trust, to give you my own case as}n illustration. I have been Mr ee times summoned to appear in the police court, ud have been twice fined, because I cannot violate onscientious conviction, and act contrary to the avice of my physician, in order to obey the laws wh:h enforce vaccination. After a very careful studyof Dr. Seaton's Handbook, the Vaccination Commiiee's Bluebook of last year, and the writings of An\vaccinators, together with as close an observation s a layman can make of many facts that have coméunder my notice during the recent very severe epiemic of smallpox in our own town, I cannot take th responsibility of inflicting a disease upon my child, )e consequences of which it is impossible to foresee. I will not trouble yu with arguments against vaccination, but will rathr ask you to reconsider the justice of compulsory vatination. I will take the liberty of forwarding yo\with this a précis of the evidence laid before the cQmittee of last year, which contains, in a condensed irm, the statements made on both sides. There is lying on the tal before me a certificate of the death of a child whos parents were members of my congregation. 'The céified cause of death is "Erysipelas following vaccinijon." Is it just that the father of this child shoulde fined (and perhaps imprisoned) because as a conscitious man he cannot submit another child to an operon which he knows killed his last ? A few days ago, when pred again by the Vaccination Prosecutor, I submted the following question tomy medical adviser :-Vould you, doctor, from your experience of smallpo\and vaccination, recommend me to vaccinate my chil\and if I brought the child, who is in excellent health, to you, would you vaccinate it?' He replied :-"My answer is, that I could not recommend you to have the child vaccinated, and that on no account would I consent to perform the vaccination. ' I advise you, as the guardian under Gd of your child's health, to resist its vaccination by every possible means." Is it not reasonable that, in a matter that affects the health of my child, I should set the advice of a medical man above the order of a magistrate-and that the more, since I have specially consulted him, because I have good reason to place the utmost confidence in his advice? But with regard to one disease I am not permitted to follow the advice of my physician, although being M.D., M.R.c.8.u. (registered), he is recognised by the Government as duly qualified to give me advice; and that because Parliament has thought it right to select the opinion of some medical men, to embody that opinion in a prescription for the whole nation, and enforce it upon every parent by the threat of fines and penalties for disobedience. In this particular, Parhament claims the right to step in between the medical man and his patient. If in this case, why not in others? This principle once admitted, must crush out all freedom of inquiry, and prove a barrier to scientific research. By the orthodox, the homceopath (Dr. Parris told the House of Commons a few years since) is looked upon as a "quack," just as last year Mr. Simon told you that the Anti-vaccinator is an "idiot." But is Parliament justified in allowing the lives of the community to be exposed to the ignorance of 'quacks,' any more than to the folly of "idiots ?" I think, Sir, you cannot fail to sec that the injustice and wrong done by compulsory vaccination extend far beyond those who are the immediate sufferers from it. It involves a principle which makes Parliament a medical pope ; and promises only fines and imprisonment to those who do not bow to its infallible dogmas.-I have the honour to be, yours respectfully, Robert Caven, B.A. Lona. Mr. T. B. Potter, M.P. for Rochdale, when addressing his constituents, during the Parliamentary recess, was questioned as to his opinion of Compulsory Vaccination. When asked if he would support a modification of the Vaccination Act, Mr. Potter replied that last year, he must confess, he thought that the act was fraught with considerable injustice. He thought now that the cumulative fines wanted remedying. Several articles, letters, reports, quotations from the Press, §¢., stand over for want of space. TO   [April 15, 1872. see of Giaes admitted to the Sheds used as a smallpox see Leeds, from January 29 to March 9, 1872. By Jno. Pickering. Date. ~ 1872. Jan. 29 ee) a 30) n 30 see dt ee Oe Ole coc CMH ONNINOANDorwore eH - 20 Ma ane TeAee Ordo OD wb Name. Alderson, Thomas ... Morton, Laura Dickenson, Lawrence Dickenson, Fred. Barber, Emma Grey, Matilda WwW alker, William Green, George Bentley, John Vickers, George Jackson, William Gibson, 'Edward W alker, Kmma Jones, Martha Rogers, John Mitchell, Polly Howard, Laura Parsons, Kate Sangers, John Cross, Blanche Cross, Ada Cross, Jesse ... Fenton, Willam Beaumont, William... Rooke, Sarah A. Bailey, Mary Payne, George Pattison, M... Dobson, 'Joshua Hardy, "Mar garet Robinson, Ann Rowman, Ann Boshell, John Wagstafie, - Haste, John... Cannard, Edward Ostler, Thomas 4] Howell, Mary Ann... Overton, James Hobson, Mary Ann... nen John ... Walker, Mary Vickerstaffe, George Castelow, Pierson, T. RB. Walton, Harriet Hanson, Josh. Lockwood, Mary A. Pattison, Mary A. Wood, William Hinds, Bartholomew Serjeant, Jane ~ Bulmer, Albert Hares, Sarah Harrison, Elizabeth Dawson, Polly Taylor, "Thomas Kettle, William Clapham, Walter Smith, Mary... Fawcett, Sarah Swales, Alice Wheeler, George Breasley, Eliza Thomas est Age. | gd 18 16 10 8 25 12 10 20 19 18 39 18 3 19 ig slg 3 6 10 16 23 8 16 28 45 29 25 28 iy 10 28 39 40) 28 17 25 7 10 14 22 47 18 18 41 Et Oo" 15 14 14 16 15 6 22 22 Ly 37 18 20 26 9 Residence. 12, Rock-street ... 4, Exmouth-street 36, Meanwood-road do. 4, Germaine-buildings ... 22, Stanhope-street 45, Quarry-hill ... 21, Cottage-street York-street Sunny Bank as 1, Bachelor- street 7 Concord-street 101, Marsh-lane ... Carlton Cottage ... 7, Linsley-row Park-lane . me 4, Hope-street is do. 17, Queen's-place, 14, South Mount-street... do. do. Dawson's-crt., George- st. Thwaite-gate, Hunslet .. 166, Vork-street fe 12, Wharfe-street Hol beck ... Old Infirmary-yar d Tlarper-street Sikh-street do. 9, Quarry-hill Charles-street 7, Linsley-row 22, Crampton' S- -buildings Walker's-buildings 8, Carver-street ... 13, Time-street . 11, Hay Mount-place Hunslet... Water-lane, Holbeck Buslingthorpe.. iOS Sunny-bank Ba 2, Greenfield-square es teas Arms Middleton Grange 10, Alder manbury, Br ad as Lil y-st-eet id Infirmary-yard 13, Harper-street The Barracks : 85, North-street . 12, High Markland- street Royal Oak-yard .. , of James- street Mapleton s Home, Mani 4, Lemon-street . Lloyd's- -yard, York-st. . Skilbeck-street, Wor tley Craven-street, Hunslet... 18, Grey-street Z; 'Mason-street St. Thomas-row, North-st. 44, Dolly-lane ve No wo) Mr, so ENO) Result. Vaccinated Lap Sa or Unvaccinated. F. Hall .| Vaccinated do. is do. >, Beardshaw ... do. do. do. ", Libbey do. ies do. do. .| Ded. 3, Holmes do. it. 9 Labbey do. ", Hopkins a do. ; " Hall ...| Unvaccinated ...) " Poster ...| Vaccinated : order do. p. RLOpking | 4 do. : ", Beardshaw .. do. .| Dead. jo reall do. 3 do. ; do. ...| Dead. >, Beardshaw . do. 3 do. do. do. : do. a ,, Nicholson ...| Unvaccinate ...; Dead. do. do. ; do. A do. .| Dead. 4; ELOpKins ~ ...) Vaccinated =o... 4 Pullan do. .| Dead. 3, Hopkins do. 3, Libbey do. ota 5, Dobson do, ...| Déad. 29 Hall do 586 No order de ...| Dead. .| Mr. Holmes d. ...| Dead. do. 0. ...| Dead. do. 0. 37 Hopkins. (is San > as ", Holmes ...| Do. &e-vaccinatd| Dead. 3, Mitchell .| Vacciated 5, J. Braithwaite do. ..| Dead. ", Libbey as do. >, Beardshaw ... do. a ", C. Richardson do. ...| Dead. ", Mitchell do. >, Maine R do. 5, Clayton do. | ", Hall do. ...| Dead. ", Libbey .| nknown ...| Dead. do. ..| accinated Pullan ; do. rk: No order ...Do. & re-vaccinatd .| Mr. Libbey " do. do. .. Vaccinated ", Hopkins _., Unknown | Dead. .| Regimental Sure} Vaccinated Mr. Clayton do. ", Libbey do. ", Hopkins do. 5, Hall do. ,, Carter fe: do. ,, Hopkins do. | No order do. Mr. Evans do. 99' Mitchel do. >, Holmes do. 5, Beardsiw .. do. 3) Clayto do. do. do. Aprit 18, 1872.  . il Date. | Name. Age Residence. By whom sent. | 4. Medel eq, | Result. 1872. | March5 | Roberts, Mary ...| 27 | 3, Grattan-street... set Mt. Halk ...| Vaccinated " 6 | Howell, Frank wi| WS 13, Pime-street. ... .| ,, Beardshaw ... do. " (c) | Kell, John ...| 20 | 4, Shaw-street 3, Libbey as do. " (c) | Binns, Margaret ..., 7 | 16, Dunn's-yard . iA) ypc EHOPISINS. 35 do. " ¢ |Goodwin, Sarah ...' 23 | Spence-lane, N. Wortley | ,, J. H. Evans do. " ¢ | Babbs, Mary... ..| 23 | Skinner-lane on seal, 755. ELCMArdson' s-. do. see | Walker, Sarah | 20 LOL) Marsh-lane. ... Hal see ROD RINE A ic do. " 8 , Bulmer, Samuel .... - | 12, High Markland-street) ,, Libbey a do. "g | Walker, Fanny .... 10 | Buslingthorpe Clayton. = it. do. " 9 | Bailey, Martha Ann 12 | 12, Wharf-street ", Libbey .... Unvaccinated | Summary. Total Cases admitted to 9th March-74 Of these are-~ Vaccinated .. oy Ge Unvaccinated een sd) Unknown .. is co Total sa 74 Mortality to the 9th March o7 46 Of these are-vaccinated .. et ED Unvaccinated 5 cee Unknown .. tay kore Total 16 - a smallPox Statistics in Leeds. (From the Leeds Mercury, 21st March, 1871.) At the usual meeting of the Guardians of the Leeds Union, yesterday, Major Middicton presiding, an audience was granted to Mr. Councillor Pickering, who wished to present a statement with reference to certain statistics published of cases at the smallpox Hospital. Mr. Pickering said, in the Mercury of Saturday, March 16, there was a return of the smallpox cases and of the mortality amongst them. Hehad been at a very great deal of trouble to go over the whole of these returns, and he could assure the board that the returns were altogether incorrect and untrustworthy.-The Chairman: Then you dispute the returns made by the medical officers in connection with the smallpox Hospital P-Mr. Pickering: Yes. The Chairman: Very well, then, if you will send us your objection to those returns, in writing, I will undertake that they shall be considered by the committee.-Mr. Pickering wished the board to hear him. The Chairman said that if-the returns were to be disputed, that was a matter the board could not enter into there, and decide at the moment.-Mr. Pickering then handed in a document, which, he said, contained all the information; and as the chairman considered it unnecessary that he should speak, he retired. -Mr. Kenworthy then proposed that the statement should be referred to a special committee.- Mr. Heles seconded the amendment.-Mr. Lampen said the returns were furnished by the medical officers as eratuitous information. The information contained in the books was not enforced by any rule either of that board or the local government board. It was merely information collected by the medical officers for their own guidance, and in short was their own private property, which nobody had a right to meddle with. They kept a record of how many had died without being vaccinated, and how many had died having been vaccinated.-In reply to amember, Mr. Lampen said he believed Mr. Pickering and a mem- er of the board had gone to the hospital and seen the books.-Mr. Kenworthy said they had not got their information from the books. They had made visits in connection with the cases vaccinated. and unvaccinated, as far as they could get them. They found the accounts inaccurate; and he wanted the committee to inquire into the matter. If he and Mr. Pickering were pronounced wrong, then he should have to make an apology, and would be glad to do it. He did not blame the medical officers ; but their returns were not correct.-Mr. Councillor Wilson felt bound to believe the doctors. If they were not to believe the statements of the doctors, he did not know whose they should take. The information had been given:voluntarily ; and before he could accede to a committec, he should like to know whether the time of the board could be spent to advantage with a committee? If there were wrong calculations, it would, perhaps, be ascertained that a few more had died amongst the cases unvaccinated than had been stated.-The Chairman thought it almost superfluous to ask the medical men whether their information was correct.-One of the medical officers said they were glad the matter had been mentioned. They had been at the trouble to com° pile the statistics for their own information, and they should be glad to have the accuracy of the statistics proved or disproved. The information which Mr. Kenworthy procured, was obtained by the matron going round the wards and getting the notes of the medical men from the head of the beds.-Mr. Kenworthy said he had only asked the matron to get the addresses of the patients. There were some' addresses which could not be made out; and she also asked. some patients whether they were vacci- 12   [April 15, 1872. nated or not, and of course when they said they were vaccinated, that was sufficient.-Mr. Councillor Smith contended that this was merely a proceeding of the Anti-vaccinators to resuscitate their agitation, with regard to which there were signs that it was dying out.-In reply to Mr. James Crabtree, the Chairman expressed an opinion that Mr. Pickering had no clear right to visit the smallpox Hospital; but as a member of the board, Mr. Kenworthy had.-Mr. Webster thought it was possible the doctors might make some mistakes, inasmuch as they would obtain their information partly from the marks on the patients ; but as to the efficacy of vaccination, a convincing statement was recently made at Halifax by Mr. Cave, the Poor-law Inspector, who mentioned that out of 200 'nurses in Liverpool, only one had taken smallpox, and that nurse was the only one that had not been re-vaccinated.-An amendment having been proposed that the next business be proceeded with, it was carried by 15 against 2.- Mr. Kenworthy's proposition was therefore rejected. The following correspondence has taken place between Mr. Jno. Pickering and Mr. H. C. Libbey, one of the medical officers, Leeds Union, with reference to the returns in dispute :- Leeds, 22nd March, 1872. Statistics of the smallpox cases at the Leeds Hospital.-Sir, I see from the newspaper report of my interview with the Leeds Board of Guardians, on Wednesday last, that, after my departure, you expressed your pleasure at the circumstance having come before the notice of the board, and your willingness to have the matter investigated. As the board declined to refer my return to a subcommittee, it is my desire, before making any further use of that return, to give you the fullest opportunity of verifying your statistics. With this object in view, I beg to say that if you will meet me before a committee of six gentlemen- three to be named by each of us, and the six to appoint their own chairman-I am prepared to find suitable accommodation, free of expense, and any other expenses connected with the inquiry I will personally. defray. The inquiry need only take cognizance of the thirteen cases which you affirm were "unvaccinated," and which I dispute; so that the scope of the inquiry will be very limited, and need only occupy three or four hours some evening next week, say Thursday.- Waiting your reply, I am, Sir, yours truly, , no. Pickering. H. C. Libbey, Esq., Medical Officer, Leeds Union. Woodhouse-lane, Leeds, March 25, 1872. Dear Sir,-I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, and to say that the statement to which you allude was not made by me, but by my colleague, Mr. Frederick Hall, and was to the effect that the medical officers were willing to have the accuracy of our returns investigated by a committee selected by the Board of Guardians. ' wrist. We cannot for a moment entertain the idea of discussing the accuracy of these returns, made originally for our own private information, before a committee called together solely at the instigation and for the satisfaction of a gentleman who has no connection with the Board of Guardians, and who is only known to us as a notorious opponent of the practice of vaccination. With regard to our statistics, [may say that they were drawn up with all due and reasonable care, and _ in all probability they are correct. Our information is obtained not only from inquiries of the patients themselves, but alsofrom a careful and minute examination of the arms of the patients, which source is far more to be relied on than yours, which is simply from inquiry of relatives and friends. Being persuaded that the ulterior object of your proposed investigation is to open a discussion on the question of vaccination, on which the minds of all reasonable men have long since been fully made up; and feeling sure that it will be utterly impossible to convince you of your error on this point; and lastly, not having time to devote to such discussion, we beg to decline accepting your proposal.-I am, dear Sir, yours truly. Jno. Pickering, Esq. H. C. Libbey. Charles Washington Nye. [Mr. Washington Nye, of Chatham, has the honour of being the greatest martyr in England under the infamous Vaccination Act. His letter nerves us for the struggle with his unrelenting persecutors. Will not some of our friends send him substantial proof of their sympathy with his suffering family ?] Seeton's Court, Brook, Chatham, March 29, 1872. Dear Sir,-It is true I have been in prison five times for not complying with the vaccination tion law. The last wasa month on the treadmill, At the police-station I received the indelible compulsory vaccination mark on my I was handcuffed by the police, who have had me in custody five times for the same offence, and have expressed their opinion that I could be trusted with the commitment to take myself to prison; so that I feel sure they must have orders to treat me as badly as possible. When I was told that I should be handcuffed, I merely remarked that I should look quite smart in bracelets : but the man that was to put them on seemed to go silly. He shut my flesh in the lock, and in locking it cut me so much that he had to scrape the pieces out of the key. Iam happy to say my child is still unvaccinated, and that I intend to keep it so, in spite of the human monsters that are trying to make me do otherwise. C.W Nye Mr, H. Pitman. April 18, 1872.]  . 13 smallPox in Durham. Durham, like many other towns, has been visited with one of the heaviest epidemics of smallpox that has ever occurred, I believe, within the recollection of even its oldest inhabitants. The vaccination laws have been very strictly enforced both before and during the progress of the epidemic. The disease first made its appearance (as far as I can ascertain) in a vaccinated family, in the east end of the town, viz. - Magdaline-street. The first to take the disorder was the father, and he could give no account as to how he got it, never having seen any case before, nor had he been near anyone, to his knowledge. It then attacked the other members of the family. All had it, however, favourably. It then spread (at first slowly and then rapidly) through other parts of the town and neighbourhood, until I had no less than 86 cases on my daily list for visiting : and when you consider that there are 13 other medical men in the town, it will give you some idea of the extent of the plague. It was not very possible under such circumstances to keep a very accurate record of each. I, however, kept a list by which I was able to ascertain the number of my cases, and also how many of these were vaccinated, and how many unvaccinated. The total number of cases up to present date (and [ think we may congratulate ourselves on being done with it) is 721. Deaths, 71. Vaccinated cases, 431 ; unvaccinated, 286. I think I may safely say, that no medical man in our town has attended so many unvaccinated cases during the present outbreak. Holding the views I do, a great many of the so-called "unprotected" naturally sent forme. The death-rate has been undoubtedly heavy, especially amongst the unvaccinated, 43 of whom died, nearly all being children under 10 years. 'There are, however, several reasons for this. Many of these were those who, owing to ill-health, had been declared unfit for vaccination, and were therefore extremely prone to take the disease, and also to die of it. Seven out of the number were dying when first seen, so that they simply came in to swell the death-rate. The greatest variety of cases have occurred both amongst vaccinated and unvaccinated, seldom two individuals in a family showing the same characteristics. Some of the vaccinated cases have been extremely severe ; some very mild. Some of the unvaccinated have presented such symptoms from the very first, as to defy all modes of treatment; anl others have been so mild, that had it not been for risk to others, they might have left their homes with impunity. I have also witnessed some strange things. For instance-- in three cases, where the mothers were confined during an attack of smallpox, the infants have been suckled by the mother without being affected with the disease; and there was no vaccination to protect them. JI remember a poor woman having three of her children down with confluent smallpox , at a place called New Durham; and when I called one morning, just as the last one was recovering, and while the scales were still thick upon it, to my horror I found the mother in bed, recently delivered of a fine healthy-looking baby, but all lying together in the same bed-the mother, and infant, and the case of smallpox, with the same bedclothes, which had never been changed. I said nothing to alarm the mother; but begged her neighbours to remove the smallpox child, and change the bed clothing. This was not done however until two days had elapsed, owing to the obstinacy of the mother, who stoutly declared she would "tak nea harm, and could not have the bit bairn fashed."' Singularly enough, neither she nor the infant at the breast took the disease, though neither had been vaccinated. I might give many curious cases, but my time is very limited, so I will close with one other. Mrs. O had two sons, one vaccinated and the other not. The vaccinated took the smallpox first. The father, who is or was in favour of the operation, was greatly alarmed for fear of the other; but both, however, had it, equally shght, being only a very few days in bed. I must now close this hurriedly-written letter, hoping the Anti-vaccinator may have a wide circulation and plenty of supporters. John Pratt, surgeon. Durham, March, 1872. Medical Prisons-Professor Newman, in a letter to the Shield, on '' Mercy versus Severity," thus exposes the insidious nature of the medical legislation projected by Mr. Bruce's Bill in the form of certified hospitals :-This is the commencement of what may become a vast organised system of medical prisons, with new posts and salaries, and new patronage, pampering and burdening the central power, which is already paralysed by excess of work, executive and legislative; and committing to one school of medical men a despotism over the bodies of women, when, in the present chaos of medical art, justice and common sense forbid the giving of any compulsory power whatever to a medical sect. It is one thing for a citizen to honour and trust individual physicians, whether allopathic, homocopathic, herbalist, or whatever else their class; it is quite another thing for the legislature to command any medical process, or commit despotic power to one school. Freedom and justice, policy and economy, all combine to forbid, fundamentally, this proposed system. Sir Thomas Chambers, M.P., before the House of Commons, on August 15, spoke thus :- "From official statistics, I find that of 155 persons admitted at the smallpox hospital in the parish of St. James, Piccadilly, 145 were vaccinated. At the Hampstead Hospital, up to the 138th May last, out of 2,965 admissions, 2,347 were vaccinated. In Marylebone, 92 per cent. of those attacked with smallpox were vaccinated ! Can anyone after this be found to contend that vaccination is a protection against smallpox ?"' et   [April 15, 1872. _ Nets, acters, Ss, Ce oe SIE A ORES at8ecs ee ee ee London.-The death of R. B. Gibbs has led to the election of Dr. Charles T. Pearce as hon. sec. of the <Anti- Compulsory Vaccination League. The report announces that Mr. George 8. Gibbs, the late treasurer, and Mrs. R. B. Gibbs, have cancelled the debt of the League. The committee deplore the indisposition of the daily press to permit the discussion of vaccination, adding-'it is therefore the more important that the League should possess an organ in which its views can be represented."' Another effort has been made on behalf of this movement, by the formation of a " Society for Suppressing Compulsory Vaccination."' The Countess de Noailles and Sir J. CO. Jervoise, bart., are the patroness and president of both orwanisations. This society has issued a number of placards, &c. The hon. sec. is Mr. T. Baker, barrister-at-law. Mr. Baker has addressed meetings at Southampton, Ryde and Newport (Isle of Wight), and other places. Ohesterjield. -A writer in the Derbyshire Courier [Ataceh 18) quotes the statistics of the smallpox Hospitals in London, to show that vaccination, instead of stamping out smallpox, is virtually stamping itin. He states that "smallpox is making sad havoc among the vaccinated in that district. Several new cases have occurred in the neighhourhood of St. Helen's-street this week: two deaths have oceurred from smallpox in this district of a confluent character, both vaccinated. Over 26 cases have occurred just outside the borough, in the vicinity of Derby-lane-three after re-vaccination- four cases proving fatal. 'This surely speaks volumes for the non-efficacy of vaccination. Why, sir, the more vaccination is carried out, the more smallpox we have, as a natural result arising from an unnatural process; yet we are told that the person vaccineted passes through the small "pox more mildly and safely. The above facts are evidence to the contrary, unless it is that the vaccinated pass more safely to the cemetery. Preston -Mr. Edward Foster, druggist, has been eleven times summoned, and many times fined, but he still defies the vaccinators, and continues actively by pen and tongue to aid our cause. When last before the magistrates, Mr. Fosterreminded them that at the time the Queen was about to be vaccinated, Dr. Jenner admitted his profound ignorance of vaccination ; and though he was warned by an eminent gentleman of the consequences that would ensue in her Majesty's case, Dr. Jenner did vaccinate the Queen, and also the Prince of Wales. Since this, what have we had? Indisposition of her Majesty, and the alarming illness of the Prince of Wales. The illness of the Prince was attributed to the foul air which he inhaled at a house where he was a visitor ; but they would find that more eminent men than Dr. Jenner said that it was not this, but blood poisoning in March last.-Mr. Spencer: We make an order against you to have the child vaccinated within ten days.-Mr. Foster: You may make an order for five days if you like, but the child shall never be vaccinated ; and when I can't pay Vil go to prison.-The defendant then left the court. Death of a Child from Vaccination. Such is the heading of an article in the Lowestoft Observer, founded on a charge of assault brought b Ly Dr.- Prentice against Ehiza Blockwell, who, it appeared, abused him in his surgery, calling him the murdersr of her daughter's child. We quote :- In defence, Blockwell said if was true she had called Dr. Prentice a murderer, and with their permission she would tell them wry she had Said 80. Dr. Prentice was the surgeon of the Local Poor-law Board, and she, being unable, through rheumatism, to earn her own living, had to obtain parish relief through his recommendation. She had gone to his surgery on the date mentioned, to ask him to recommend her again; but he refused, believing her to be well, and that, in consequence, he had somewhat roughly ejected her from his house. Some time ago she took her daughters' two children to him to be vaccinated, One was a fine healthy boy about four years of age. The next day he became ill; the following day worse, and then delirious, She sent for Dr. Prentice, who came and said the child was all right; it was the vaccine taking effect: and after sleeping for an hour, the boy woke up and shrieked dreadfully. The next day he -was worse. His body was rubbed with laudanum, and a little castor oil given him, anda mustard plaster placed on his stomach. He became worse. Dr. Prentice was again sent for, but he only arrived at nine at night, said the boy was all right, and that the ans and smallpox were acting at the same time ; that the boy had just been vaccinated in time, as mth he wanted no medicine. The next day the child was still worse. This was Saturday. He frothed at the mouth, and was so bad that Dr. Prentice was again sent for. He came at seven p.m., said the boy was all right, and never prescribed any medicine. On Sunday evening, at six o'clock, the boy died, after vomiting and bleeding at the nose in the morning. Dr. Prentice was again sent for, but he declined coming, saying the sickness and bleeding at the nose would do it good. After the child's death he gave a certificate. ' What do you call that, gentlemen," said the woman, "but murder?' When he saw the child dying, he never gave it any medicine. The charge of assault was dismissed. Vaccination and Assurance.-I have received a circular that has just been issued. by the '¢Prudential Assurance Company." It states that a "certificate of successful vaccination will now no longer be required." You see which way the wind is b! owing.-A, Booth. April 15, 1872.3  . 5 Vaccination Prosecutions. Ashton-Mr. Jabez Steele was charged with contravening an order made upon him on the Ist January, directing him to have his child, Fanny Steele, vaccinated within 21 days.-The defendant said he had eleven children, and not one of them was vaccinated, and not one of them had been attacked with the smallpox. He did not think that the law was strong enough to compel him to injure his children. He felt proud of bringing them up in the way he had done.-The Chairman: We fine you 20s. and costs; and if you don't pay, you will be committed for 14 days. Hull.-Dr. A. Anholm was summoned for neglecting to have his child vaccinated. In answer, defendant said that two years ago one of his children died in consequence of being poisoned by vaccination. He therefore objected to have his other children vaceinated.-The case was adjourned for 14 days. Hyde.-The ''authorities"' have declared their 'determination to carry out the law to the fullest degree." The local newspaper reports how "a batch of Anti-vaccinators from Bredbury'' were dealt with. We select a few cases :-Mr. Ralph Stafford, who had already been fined 20s. and cosis for refusing to have his son Fergus (born in November, 1868) vaccinated, said he had committed no crime, and begged that the full penalty might not be imposed. He had been successfully vaccinated himself; still, he had the smallpox about 12 years ago. Defendant said he did not intend at present to comply with the law; and he was fined 20s. and costs. guilty to not having her child (born August, 1870) vaccinated ; and on declining to comply with the law was fined 10s. and costs. Mr. Daniel Stafford, whose son, Joseph Penney Stafford (born April, 1869) had not been vaccinated, said he was very sorry to have to violate the law, but he thought he should not be doing his duty to his child and to his conscientious convictions, were he to vaccinate at present.-The Clerk : You will not be doing your duty to your wife and family if you spend your life in Knutsford prison.-Defendant: That is at the discretion of the magistrates.-Fined 10s. and costs--Mr. Samuel Stafford, who said that one of his children had suffered much from vaccination, was fined 10s. and costs, for refusing to have his daughter, Eliza (born May, 1870) vaccinated. Manchester.-The following cases (some weeks old) ought to be put on record:-Mr. Wm. Tarr, soon after suffering fourteen days' imprisonment for refusing to vaccinate his child, was again summoned, but the name of the child being wrongly spelt, the case was dismissed. Since then, the vaccinators, by their untimely visits, have introduced smallpox into Mr. Tarr's house, and his children took the disease. He treated them himself successfully ; and is now exempt from further persecution.--Mr. Hdwd. Heywood, 6, Polygon-street, Chorlton-on-Medlock, was Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Greenwood pleaded - summoned to produce his child, Frank Harold.- Mr. Headlam asked if the defendant had brought the child ?-Defendant : The child is in court now. Before you make the order, your worship-- Mr. Headlam : If you are going to talk against vaccination, I cannot hear you. Provided you can show that the child is not in a fit state to be vaccinated, the case will be dismissed. That is the only defonce, as I have so often told you before.- Defendant : Here is the law, and it ought to be so that anyone who can read can understand it. The defendant then quoted the 31st section of the Vaccination Act. He said he wished to draw the magistrate's attention to that part which related to the fitness of the child. Was Mr. Headlam satisfied that if his (the defendant's) child was not vaccinated, it would prove "a nuisance and a dangerous object to society ?'-Mr. Headlam: Have you evidence that the child is not in a fit state ?--Dofendant: Yes, sir, evidence that satisics me beyend dispute.-Mr. Headlam: Well, I must make an order.-Defendant: I protest against the unconstitutional and unreasonable way in which I have been compelled to bring evidence here for the purpose of criminating myself. -Mr. Headlam: I will give you three weeks to have the operation performed. -- Mr. Charles Bruton, 39, Oxford-street, was summoned for neglecting to have his child vaccinated, and also to produce the child.-The Defendant said: You will remember on the last occasion I asked you what was necessary for carrying out the operation. You said that it was pure matter.-Mr. Headlam: You were summoned to produce the child; is it here?-Defendant: I admit that it is not vaccinated. Mr. Headlam : Have you got a certificate that the child is unfit ?- Defendant : The only certificate I have is this, that you told me that impure matter would not do.-Mr. Headlam: No, I said you must go to the vaccinator. Defendant : I have been, and there is no such thing as pure matter. Ihave got here a doctor's letter, in which, while refusing to submit matter for inspection, he acknowledges it to be rottenness and corruption.-An order for vaccination within three weeks was made. Selby.-Mr. William Clarkson, bookkeeper, was summoned by Mr. Shipman, the vaccination officer for the Selby Union, for disobeying an order to have his child, Percy Allen Clarkson, vaccinated. -Defendant again pleaded conscientious objections ; and the Bench inflicted the full penalty of 20s. and costs, which the defendant refused to pay: and Mr. Shipman apphed for a distress warrant in default, also one for costs in obtaining the order, which were granted. Defendant was also summoned for neglecting to have his children, Arthur and Adeline, vaccinated ; and an. order was made to have them both vaccinated within seven days, and pay costs in each case.- We understand thata distraint was made upon the defendant, when he still refused to pay, and a portion of lis goods were removed, and publicly sold. | 16 The Anti-Vaccinator. [April 15, 1872. rin nae eae. a nie we Lain i Mae as Nea AR! Pay ee a "iS. W." (Manchester).-- The Guarantee Fund for the Richard Butler Gibbs. I took my pen to write the word- "OQ dismal grave! O fearful death !" When, lo! it seemed as if I heard- not uttered by a mortal breath- 'Oh, be not sad! oh, do not mourn that he from out your midst is gone! for he hath waked to brighter morn than dawns this weary earth upon ; where he will ke more happy far, have greater scope to run the race he ran so nobly here,-a star upon the troubled ocean's face! And though now hidden by the cloud that parts Eternity from Time, he may, perchance, be yet allowed to hold to you his torch sublime; the torch of Freedom and of Truth, to light ye mortals through the dread and darkling desert, which from youth to age in sorrow ye must tread." Reg eo? weet Ou oo? Manel en et Sac e" anst te oth ee coh age" eget Mae oo Se oe" Mee eh Ma ce" a _ oe Sa oe ee oe tae " Anti - Vaccinator" (Lewes). - With regard to your (4 6 question, we might refer you to the report of the Conference held at Manchester in January last, where it was distinctly stated by several members of the branch Leagues that they wished to show their gratitude for the past services of Mr. Henry Pitman by contributing to a fund for discharging the debt on the late Anti-Vaccinator. Mr. Jno. Pickering, the treasurer of the Guarantee Fund for the journal, has consented to act in that capacity with respect to any funds to be subscribed for that special object. Mr. Ward, the printer, has intimated his willingness to receive the amount by periodical instalments. The late Anti-vaccinator rendered good service to the cause, and it is to be hoped that the generosity of the members will put it within the power of the ireasurer to reduce the debt, and eventually to discharge it. Some contributions have already been made. Clause 10."-It is certainly the intention of J. W. Pease, Esq., M.P., Geo. Leeman, Esq., M.P., and Sir Thomas Chambers, M.P., to introduce a Bill into Parliament, at a very early date, practically to reinstate clause 10 of the Bill of 1871. As soon as the Bill is prepared we are promised a copy, and hope -perhaps in our next number - to acquaint our readers as to the date when it will come under the | notice of the House. In the meantime, we urge our friends to prepare and obtain petitions 'against compulsory vaccination; and to communicate with their representatives in Parliament, requesting them to support the measure. 7 P.'' (Manchester).- Any gratuitous distribution of the Anti-vaccinator will be left entirely to the generosity of individuals, or of branch Leagues. 'é (4 ' € ¢ n 4 ' journal has now reached £200 per annum for the next three years. It is very desirable to increase the sum to £300. We have no doubt the friends of the movement will soon complete the Guarantee to that amount. Supported by such a fund, the influence of the journal will be much enhanced. 'The movement is gathering friends daily, in every direction; and the usefulness of such a means of information cannot be over-estimated. It is the intention of the Editors occasionally to reprint articles, or lectures, which may appear in the journal, in the shape of tracts or leaflets. When this is the case, announcement will be made. W. F." (Exeter).-It will be much better for you to order the journal of your bookseller. It is only right when we have a London agent that the circulation should be effected through him ; in addition to which, it will save you the postage. The journal will be published on the 1st and 15th of each month; and when those dates fall on a Sunday, it will bear date the day following. Inquirer" (London).-We certainly regret as much as you do that there should be two separate agencies in London, both having the same object in view; and moie so, when we call to mind the circumstances which caused the disagreement amongst friends. A meeting of one of the societies is called for the 20th inst. We shall attend that meeting, in the hope of bringing about a reconciliation upon some basis; so that the London agency may get to work in right earnest. Yorkshire, East Riding."-Can it be possible, in this nineteenth century, that you should ask us to send the journal under 'close cover''? H. 8." (Cork).-Send us the facts of the case. Above all, be particular as to the facts. If any agitation in the wide world can trust itself with truth, we can; that is all we care for-all weask. Our worst enemies are those who will not, dare not, look truth in the face. We should prefer a declaration before a magistrate. It is-a little more trouble, but it would have more weight. "< Emigrant."-We are sorry that an Englishman, with 'a wife and five children,' should be compelled, to avoid fines and imprisonment for conscience' sake, to seek a home in a distant land. You are not alone. We have a letter from another of our members, informing us of his intention of sailing from our shores in a fortnight. He has literally been ruined by his persistent resistauce of the law, and his friends have provided him with funds to start life afresh in a country where the laws, with respect to vaccination, are more tolerant. Notice to Subscribers. The " Anti-Vaccinator" can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in country districts, at the following rates, VIE. i- Single copy, for 6 months Do. Niel? eal 2, bewanams 38. on All Orders should the accompanied by a remittance, in stamps, addressed to 30, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . ---___$-- Edited by John Pickering, F.S.S., Springfield Mount, Leeds, and Henry Pitman, Phonetic Institute, 41, John Dalton Street, Manchester. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinaior, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. tee All Communications to be sent to the Hditors, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 2. New Series. May 1, 1872. Price One Penny. Registered for Transmission Abroad, Contents. ov Page Compulsory Vaccination opposed to Science and Freedom ....... seteneat oie Svavarsvorsexerete doce, WG etter from Holland. i <i:a.0 ci. 0 5, serena 16 Lord Derby on the Sanitary Question...... 19 Vaccination a Relic of Barbarism .......... 20 Vaccination in the United States .......... al Persecution under the Vaccination Acts .... 22 Mrs. Hume-Rothery's Two-to-One Argument 22 The Amended Vaccination Act, 1872........ 26 SMTeop< shay IDI NSINEAGoodoneSODoODbOUS canoe ett How to Help the Anti-Vaccinator....-:....++ 27 Experience of an Emigrant ..... SHO6O00dOOS 28 INMAGIC CHA pI OME as OIL ale) oisiele) sie) -]esetilosielela)se161° 32 The Press:-Education and Vaccination- Deaths from Vaccination-Reasons Against WEGNER OO Ro oO OOOU OD OOD RCOO CHOCO TAGS 5 es Vaccination Prosecutions :-Chester-le-Street, Hurst, Newport, Selby, Sheepshed, Stock- POT SANACTIANG 6,40: ailes su ctivecn ee eas 29 News:-Ashton, Bridgwater, Darlington, Leicester, Malton, Manchester, Middleton, Newcastle, Northampton, Over Darwen, Ripley, Rushden, Sheffield, St. Heliers, NVETRINSTOMC sires lerceielee e+ qododbuouDO. 30 Answers to Correspondents .....seeseeeeees 32 Compulsory Vaccination Opposed to Science and Mr eedom., By Emer: Professor F. W. Newman. (Continued from page 4.) We admit that the State may assault our bodies in two cases. First-if we are criminal ; only the crime must not be a fanciful crime, arbitrarily created by law. Religious persecutors used to pretend that they punished a heretic not for his heresy, but for his disobedience to the law. Thatis, they voted his opinion to be a crime. Now-a-days they vote non- vaccination to be criminal. A hundred years ago the physicians would have advised the State to enforce inoculation ; but now inoculation 1s penal! Well may the State forbid infusing a disease: but to command the infusion of disease is sin and crime, whatever men may vote. No such capricious enactments can justify the enactors; crime must be measured by the human conscience and common sense. But secondly-if one of us, without crime, have a contagious disease, the law may justly take precautions against his imparting it to persons who unawares are brought into nearness with him in public. Just as a man in leprosy was forbidden to come into the congregation, so may a man in smallpox. But when we are in health, to pretend that our health is dangerous to our fellow-citizens is absurdity: to legislate against full health is atrocity. Nevertheless, physicians of repute pretend that an unvacccinated child is a centre of pestilential disease. Such an utterance is even animpiety. As toits intense absurdity, there is no measure of that; and there ought to be no measure of contempt-and hardly of our indignation-when legal murder is founded on it. At what are they aiming? Forsooth, to protect us from smallpox. Yet they placard revaccination over the whole kingdom; hereby avowing that vaccination is not a protection. And it is enforced on helpless infants only. I think we ought to petition Parliament to submit aes   themselves to vaccination, from arm to arm, before they inflict the misery on us. Such conduct makes law hateful, and looses the bands of loyalty and patriotism. It is hard to speak of such legislation as. it deserves. But, in fact, it was carried in the dead of night ; no doubt, in an empty house. Such is the disgraceful stealth by which medical artfulncss compasses its despotic objects. Once cnacced, countless martyrdoms are needed bere an over-worked Parliament will rescind a bad law. The men who do these things are incendiaries of revolution. . Now, we have recently seen in Paris, in London, and all over England, how impotent vaccination and re-vaccination are to stay or lessen smallpox. The statistics furnished by vaccinators prove (if figures can prove anything) that vaccination doubles the tendency to smallpox: hence they have of late ceased giving the figures. Yet they pretend no other proof but figures! They have not a shred of science or common sense to stand on. And, after all, what right has Parliament to trouble itself about smallpox at all? That disease does not increase public mortality. Deaths are not more numerous in the year in which smallpox abounds. An eminent chemist, Dr. Lyon Playfair, M.P. for Edinburgh, is reported to have said in Parliament, that vaccination saves 80,000 lives every year. Hiven such men cannot help talking nonsense on this subject. There ig absolutely no saving of life by vaccination ; inasmuch as there is no sacrifice of life by smallpox. Those who die of it are not more than die in other years of other diseases. Moreover, smallpox has not diminished, but has increased, since vaccination was made compulsory, and especially infant mortality has increased: infants are those whom chiefly vaccination attacks. And if vaccination did hinder smallpox, how could that mean anything but that it drives the evil off the surface into the vitals? If men live in unclean habits, eat unclean food, or breathe impure air, tending to smallpox, the true and only remedy is to remove the unclean cause. If you leave it to work its mischief, and think to ease the patient by hindering its appearing on the surface, we [May 1, 1872. need no deep physiology to assure us that you cannot make the patient better, and must probably make him worse. Never was a medical dogma so hollow, so baseless, as this of vaccination; never was English legislation so atrocious as since medical men have been attached to the Privy Council; unless we go back to burning of witches and heretics, which was introduced through the too great influence | of the clergy. After all, there are many physicians who insist that smallpox is not a dangerous disease, nor at all intractable. I belheve I am right in saying that, treated at the worst, it is not one- tenth as fatal as scarlet fever. But Dr. Garth Wilkinson attests, that by simple medicaments (hydrastis canadasis and veratrum viride) it is readily curable. Clergymen, without medical skill, report to him their success. Hydropaths avow that they cure it safely, and generally without pitting. Mr. Bartholomew, of the Bristol Turkish Baths, attests to me his success in the past, and his confidence in the powers of the bath to cure smallpox. The American surgeons surprised Hurope by their skill in the Franco- German war: and the eminent physicians of New York are in great numbers opposed to vaccination. The English physicians have abandoned the doctrine of Jenner, who taught that one vaccination made smallpox afterwards impossible. Instead of going on their knees to confess their past blunders, they trump up new and new pretences, in order to keep up what is now nothing but an habitual vice. But I have spoken at length, and pause, in case any of the audience has any questions to which I may be able to reply. Poisoning for Pelf.- A few days ago a lady in Sheffield waited upon her surgeon, living near Highfields. She had to wait, as the doctor was busy vaccinating some other ladies. When they retired, she introduced the subject of vaccination, asking the medical man what his opinions honestly were ? '' Well, you see, Mrs. G.,"' replied he, ' these ladies come to me to be re-vaccinated, as do many others, and I do it as a matter of business-it would not do to send them away: but, mind you-this in confidence-I would not practice it upon my own daughters!' Thisisa fact. I recommend the conscientious example of Dr. Garth Wilkinson to this man.-Geo. Dawson, Sheffield. May 1, 1872.] Letter fom Holland. Gentlemen,-I rejoice very much in the publication of your Anti-Vaccinator, and I will tell you the reason. Jama physician. I took my degree, after many years of most serious study, at Leyden, in the year 1818. I was then a strong vaccinator; but, like so many others, I had not made a study of vaccination, and followed the custom without hesitation: but in the year 1822 a great change took place in my opinions. I became a Christian. ITamaJewby birth. This great change in my mind compelled me to examine all things with more seriousness, especially the history and nature of vaccine and vaccination. I can truly say, that after a most earnest study of more than two years, I hecame deeply convinced that the practice of vaccination was very pernicious to the life of man, especially in the case of children, by counteracting the normal development, and giving the opportunity for many diseases to become inserted with the virus of vaccine. I wrote and published a volume in 1826 against vaccination, as opposed to the true theory and practice of medicine, as well as subversive of morality and religion. Thirty physicians wrote volumes and brochures against me in the most vigorous manner : they persecuted me, threatened me by anonymous letters, induced many of my patients to leave me, and J was designated in the public and medical papers as a visionary, a fanatic, &c. No one writer against me remained without refutation, for I published many volumes to refute my opponents, and further expose the dangers of vaccination and re-vaccination. But now I am 76 years old, and by the weakness of my bodily constitution I was constrained many years ago to leave the practice of medicine. Now, you may consider how glad I was to see that an Anti-vaccination periodical is coming to light! Ifyou will send me some little books or pamphlets on this subject, I will try and translate them into Dutch, and spread over the land, because just now in our parliament compulsory vaccination is a subject of discussion. Could you send me regularly a copy of your Anti-Vaccinator 2 I should be thankful for it. My address is-Dr. A. Capadon, Bezindenhout, 3, the Hague, Holland.-I remain, gentlemen, with the kindest regards, yours in sympathy, Dr. Capadon.  . : 19 Lord Derby on the Sanitary Question. Lord Derby, when opening the new hospital at Bootle, echoed Mr. Disraeli's statement, that the sanitary question lies at the foundation of all national well-beimg and greatness.. The Knight of Knowsley added :- Thirty years ago-perhaps even a dozen years ago-language of that kind from a political leader would have been thought eccentric and paradoxical : now it 1s accepted as a fair expression of the feelings and wants of the time. That is a remarkable change: let the credit of it be given where it is due. Itis owing to the collective labour of many individuals, personally-for the most part, obscure, but who have worked in a spirit of unselfish devotion to a great and useful cause. The conviction which sanitary knowledge brings with it as to the preventability (in general) of disease, is one of incalculable importance. Men are very slow to learn the extent to which their destinies are in their own power. They are apt to be astonished if you point out to them that nine-tenths of the calamities that have afflicted the human race, are directly and obviously the work of men's own hands. And why dof say this ? Because I am deeply convinced that no sanitary improvement worth the name will be effected-whatever acts you pass, or whatever powers you confer upon public officers-unless you can create a real and intelligent interest in the matter among the people at large. It is no good setting up public baths or washhouses, if people don't care to use them ;-though, let me say, in passing, I think the want of such institutions on an adequate scale is one of the chief defects of our great towns. You cannot get healthy brains to. grow on unhealthy bodies. Cleanliness and self-respect go together ; and it is no paradox to affirm that you tend to purify men's thoughts and feelings, when you purify the air they breathe. Dr. Sexton has addressed numerous meetings of late on the subject of vaccination. Amongst other towns visited by this champion of medical freedom have been Manchester, Sheffield, Stockport, Gainsboro', Grimsby, Wolverhampton, Lincoln, Hull, Beverley, Bury, Hyde, Huddersfield, &. The audiences have been so numerous, and unanimous against the inhuman practice of vaccination, that Dr. Sexton says:-'" It is my solemn conviction that many of us are sufficiently young to live to see all the despotic Acts of Parliament swept from the Statute-book that prevent the full realisation of medical freedom."' As editor of the New Era, the organ of the British Medical Reform Association, Dr. Sexton is using his pen also to expose the vaccination sham. The Debate on Vaccination between Dr. Sexton and Dr. Moxon, at Brigg, has been reprinted by the London League, from the New Era, and can be had | from 15, Southampton-row, W.C., at 2/- per 100. 20   [May 1, 1872. Vaccination a Relic of Barbarism, Some time ago, when the rage for vaccination was at its height, I happened to meet a country surgeon who has an immense practice; and almost my first question was on this all-important theme. He said, in reply, that at any rate it was incurring a serious responsibility to infuse into the system a poison which may or may not prove fatal, or, at least, injurious. He said, further, that some had died from the effects of vaccination under his especial care. One case came under my own notice: a few months ago, an only child-a fine boy-after undergoing this revolting process, began to droop, and he died in a few weeks. Now, observe, this child was perfectly healthy before: and will any one dare to say that smallpox would have been fatal, or even severe, had it otherwise chanced to attack the child? I think not. God never intended that man, woman, or child, should suffer from any such disease; and to compel vaccination, is to !pre-suppose that all are to have it at some stage or other in their existence. If vaccination were an infallible preventive, then I should say, if people choose, let them undergo it ; but as it is just the reverse, and the cause of ill health for weeks, months, aye, years to come, I say compulsory vaccination is a great infringement on that freedom which every man has a right to enjoy. Now this is no fancy ; it is the result of seeing for myself; and I know of no better testimony than to believe what one sees, in such a case as this. People have often offered this argument-'"' Read what the newspapers say." Well, figures may be made to prove anything, if it comes to that ; there is as much on the one side as on the other; and the best plan is to examine for yourself. Living in a populous neighbourhood, where the utmost extremity of the law has been carried out on the subject, I have had opportunities of judging of the extreme reluctance with which scores of people allow their infants to be operated on; and I can sympathise with them, and have great respect for their reluctance. Isympathise also with those heroic men and women who stand against it, even to the suffering of imprisonment, I have seldom heard of a greater slur on the justice of England than this-for the medical men to think and act for the many thousands who must have an opinion of their own, and, if they could, would carry it into practice. It is almost as unjust as the Acts which were lately attempted to be put in force, taking away entirely the liberty of women. Surely, it is much needed that our most gracious Queen (who for so long has suffered from the results of vaccination) should resume her once active position among the people, and add her valuable testimony to that of a great part of her faithful people against this shameful infringement of the rights of men, and women too. Let us hope the day is not far distant when every one may be allowed to think for himself; and it will surely come, sooner or later, for all steps towards further civilization have swept before them ignorance and superstition, as they will continue to do, until we can have perfect freedom of thought and action. In this matter, as in many others, people are mostly swayed by fashion-that all-powerful sovereign ; and rather than be behind the times, they will sacrifice reason and common sense to it. Just as ladies would think any one almost insane to denounce the folly of wearing those hideous deformities-chignons - because it is fashionable, so they will regard any who dare to come between them and their fancy for being vaccinated. Medical men, generally speaking, approve of it; they can make considerable fortunes by it; so they cannot but regard it favourably, if it bring them money, the god they adore! I know of some who disapprove of it, and tell their patients so plainly: nevertheless, if they are asked, they comply, as a matter of course. Others-but they are few- more consistently refuse to vaccinate any one, and although they lose considerably in a pecuniary point of view, they have the satisfaction of a good conscience, which is said to be a mine of wealth to its possessor. The great phrenologist, Fowler, in one of his recent lectures, gave some suitable advice to parents on this subject, cautioning them against feeding their children on greasy meats; tea and coffee, and other pernicious stimulants should also be avoided, and a plain wholesome diet strictly adhered to: in addition to this, thorough cleanliness, both of the person and surroundings, is necessary to health, as is ventilation, plenty of fresh air, and exercise in it. If these are attended to, it is scarcely possible for disease to attack a body so fortified against it. Let us hope that the many sanitary measures at present being considered by Government, may be augmented by this-a Bill against Compulsory Vaccination ; so that before long we shall have one more cause to be proud of our sea-girt isle, as a place where freedom is complete. as Unpopularity of Vaccination.-A friend from the Midlands thus writes:--I send you the annual report of the Leicester officer of health, in which I read - '* Experiments might be adduced in which vaccine lymph has been taken from diseased children, and healthy children vaccinated with it, and in no instance has any other effect been produced than the production of the vaccine vesicle.' Once, I remember meeting with a weakly young person who had thrice been vaccinated, in the belief that the operation was a fashionable peculiarity. How great the change now! Only a few days ago, a batch of poor women were observed going to the vaccination station, slowly, and with tears. Yes-with tears in their eyes, and with curses in their hearts, for they now know on the best authority that experiments have been made with lymph from diseased children, and they cannot know on whom these alarming experiments will next fall. EAT May 1, 1872.)  . 21 Wicciitiiantin the Uslited. States. Our brethren on the other side of the Atlantic seem to be as doctor-ridden, and as much bewildered by the fallacy of vaccination, as any nation in the old world. There, as here, people take it for granted that there is virtue in vaccination. The doctors say so, and the people do not make it their business to question the statement, and examine into the theory and effects of this strange and unphilosophical operation. It is surprising that so thoughtful and original a people as the Americans should have accepted the dictum of John Bull's doctor. There are symptoms, we are glad to observe, of inquiry and protest, not only from native Americans, but also by English emigrants who have been driven from their country by the persecution of vaccinators. We have been fayoured by Dr. Garth Wilkinson with a report of the proceedings at the twenty-first annual meeting of the New York State Homeopathic Medical Society, recently held at Albany, when the subject of vaccination was again considered. The discussion was chiefly on the best, or least injurious, mode of vaccinating; yet some damaging admissions were made :- Dr. Gray, who introduced the question, was of opinion that the vaccination of the infant should be repeated after the age of puberty, believing the protection of early vaccination to be effaced by the development of the sexual system. He cited the instance of a friend seventy-eight years of age, who died in consequence of vaccination, in twelve hours, from erysipelas: therefore, subsequent vaccination to the one of early youth he considered to be a useless danger. He preferred to use the humanised virus, the third or fourth from the animal. Dr. Mandeville stated that one of his own children had been rendered a permanent invalid by vaccination with humanised virus. For two years after, he did not vaccinate at all, from the conviction that such virus imparted disease. Afterwards he obtained from a source in Germany retro- vaccine virus, which has since been declared impure; he therefore uses Dr. Martin's points, and invariably with good results. Dr. Dowling described a case of erysipelas produced by the use of impure virus, in which rius tox was used with decided benefit. This society approved the use of the animal virus as furnished by Dr. H. A. Martin. Several precautions were, however, suggested to prevent the transfer of disease, thus admitting the dangerous and irrational nature of the operation. Negro Notions of Vaccination. -The Norfolk (U.S.) Journal says :-Many of the negroes in the city have thrown every impediment in the way of the execution of the duty of the public vaccinators appointed to vaccinate all who are unable to procure the services of a private physician. They have a notion that the object of the doctors is to inoculate them with smallpox, and resist and defy them when they attempt to vaccinate them. One of the physicians appointed by the Board of Health to perform this duty had to employ the services of a policeman a few days ago, and succeeded with the aid of the officer in vaccinating several negroes, almost by force. Ludicrous scenes occur when a physician visits some of the lanes where the negroes live. The inmates of the houses bar their doors, and, retreating to the upper floor, defy the efforts of the doctor to reach them. Little children, whose minds have been filled with terror by the stories told them by their parents, fly in horror from the doctor. It is safe to assume that one-half of the negroes in that city have never been vaccinated. No argument can convince many of the negroes that the object of the doctors is to save them from the danger of contracting disease. Vaceinated Veal.-I cut the following from the New York Evening Post of yesterday :- " Frank Young, a Brooklyn butcher, killed yesterday a calf that had recently been inoculated with vaccine virus. When forbidden by Inspector Waldron to sell the veal, he replied that he had already disposed of four similar carcases, and that this was the best of the lot.' To-day it turns out that these vaccinated calves were actually kept to propagate the cowpox, and supply vaccine lymph for exportation to Europe ; and when all the lymph was taken from them to ship across to your side of the Atlantic, the calves were then killed as "beautiful veal'' for Yankee consumers in Brooklyn, New York. What say flesh- eaters to this "'delicacy'' of the season ?-M7r. J. A. Mowatt, in the "Dietetic Reformer" for April. In a recent number of Leslie's Illustrated Journal, of New York, we are told that a Dr. Chambon has opened an office for vaccinating from the calf. Three pictures are given. In the first, the doctor is tying down the calf in his parlour: in the next, he is inserting human variola into the udder : and in the third, he is vaccinating his patients direct from the calf. In an explanatory article the editor says, that by reason of the great number of smallpox cases after vaccination in New York, the verdict hitherto given in favour of vaccination is now open to doubt. Ze   (May 1, 1872. Persecution under the Vaccination Acts, Case of Charles Washington Nye. We have received from the Rev. W. Hume- Rothery a statement of the cruel treatment of Mr. Charles Washington Nye, of Chatham, during five separate terms of imprisonment which he has suffered, rather than permit one of his children to be vaccinated. Were the punishment even more cruel, Mr. Nye is not the man to flinch from doing what he believes to be his duty as a father. ''I am happy to say,' he writes, ''that my child is still unvaccinated, and I intend to keep it so, in spite of the human monsters who are trying to make me do otherwise." Five times imprisoned for one offence! Can such injustice be possible in so-called free England? And what isthe '' offence'? Simply this, Mr. Nye lost one child through vaccination, and he resolved not to permit the deadly lancet to touch another: in other words, his child is healthy, and he refuses to allow the State-paid doctor to make it diseased. For this he has been handcuffed, put to hard labour which made his hands bleed (Mr. Nye being by trade a watchmaker), stinted in food and clothing, and treated worse than a murderer. Mr. Hume-Rothery wrote to Mr. Bruce, the Home Secretary, reminding him that he had expressed his regret that handcuffs had been used in the case of Peter Hitchen, of Wigan, and calling for a rebuke of this '' monstrous outrage upon justice." No notice was taken of the first letter, nor of a second, in which Mr. | Hume-Rothery said of vaccination that it is a ''practice which, as any one may see who is not wilfully blind, our children will look back upon as the greatest swindle of the 19th century ; whilst those who are ruthlessly upholding and enforcing it, will have to take rank amongst the witch-burning bigots. of the middle ages." A third letter brought an answer, to the effect that '' Mr. Bruce can discoyer no circumstance in this case calling for the interference of the Secretary of State." If those who are in authority refuse to bestir themselves when justice is outraged, it is time for the people to interfere by putting men of sense and conscience into power. Mrs. Hume Rothery's Two-to-One Argument. Mr. Mordey Douglas seems toimagine that he hag demolished an argument adopted, in some measure, by Professor Newman from a letter writtten to him by Mrs. Hume-Rothery. The object of the argument is to show that the vaccinated are twice as liable to smallpox as the unvaccinated. The argument is constructed of the following materials :-The Lancet, of Jan. 21, 1871, states in a leading article that '' From the early part of the century cases of smallpox after - vaccination have been increasing, and now amount to four-fifths of the cases."' Mr. George Gibbs, of Darlington, has found from returns made to Parliament by the late Poor-law Board, and the late Medical Department of the Privy Council, that but 65°5 per cent. of the English people are vaccinated; i.e, not quite two-thirds. Now, as these two-thirds furnish four-fifths of the smallpox cases that occur amongst us, whilst the unvaccinated one- third furnish but one-fifth of such cases, it is as manifest as figures can render it, that the vaccinated are twice as susceptible of smallpox as the unvaccinated. Mrs. Hume-Rothery further observed, that as the unvaccinated were chiefly to be found among the neglected classes, owing to the fashionable prevalence of vaccination among the higher, the argument against vaccination is even stronger than the mere figures would show. In Mrs. Hume-Rothery's letter above alluded to, the Registrar-General was quoted by mistake, instead of the returns above-named. The rectification of this mistake, furnished by Mr. George Gibbs himself, strengthens (instead of demolishing) the argument. The returns made to Parliament by the Government Medical and Poor-law authorities cannot be disputed by pro-vaccinators, and apply not to London only, but to the country at large. Further-Professor Newman referred to the London smallpox Hospital; but in the Lancet's statement there is no such limitation. It broadly states that now-a-days four-fifths of the smallpox cases that occur are to be met with among the vaccinated, as Mr. Douglas may see for himself by reference to the Lancet I have quoted. It is, therefore, the great oracle itself, and the Government medical returns above referred to- (Mr. George Gibbs's calculations from which remain, so far as I know, unimpeached)-which Mr. Mordey Douglas must apply himself to demolish if he wishes to overthrow our two-to-one argument. Wm. Hume-Rothery. April 12, May 1, 1872.} The ress. Senge" Sen get Ban tt ta cat Soy et? te cet tae see tay oF" Payee age Man gee test Mee gel "On of Mayet" ange Ma gt! "te set tay Education and Vaccination. The Contemporary Review, for April, contains an allusion to the vaccination controversy and the case of Charles Washington Nye. It occurs in a paper entitled--"' The Government and Scientific Morality," by Henry Holbeach, whose axiom is--'' No man has a right to interfere with me in the pursuit of my own good, unless I prevent: his pursuing his own good." He argues :-' You have no right in the world to create, by bad laws, smelling of the dark ages, an artificial legal stigma.'' Writing of compulsory education, he says:-''If I had achild likely to come within the scope of the Education Act, 1 would, for no bribe and for no penalty, allow him to attend either a secular or a denominational school ; and I hope the old spirit is yet so far alive in this country that those conscientious people who are liable to be wronged by the Act, will steadfastly refuse at all risks to heed its provisions. If the Vaccination Act can be defied, so can this." Ina note, Mr. Holbeach adds :-'' It seems to me, on the whole, expedient that children should at present be vaccinated ; but 77s certainly not proven that the Act of Parliament has not hindered the scientifie stamping out, by other methods, of smallpox. At Chatham there is a man who regularly refuses to have his child vaccinated, and will not pay the fines." Anti-vaccinators will fully endorse the words we have emphasized ; but we see a wide difference between the Acts for enforcing Education and Vaccination. Deaths from Vaccination. The Kilburn Times is one of the few papers that dare to present the whole truth about vaccination. In a recent article the editor, while exposing the folly and selfishness of endowing one system of medicine, culminating in the Compulsory Vaccination Act, remarks :- Only a few weeks since we recorded the death of a child four months old, of jaundice following vaccination; and on Saturday last we announced the death of the infant daughter of Mr. Moyes, of 3, Modena-terrace, Upper Westbourne Park, from convulsions of erysipelas produced by vaccination; whilst another child in the same house (both having been vaccinated at the same time) also suffered with erysipelas from the same cause. It is desirable that every publicity should be given to these painful cases, a8 it is the almost universal practice of medical men to deny that any injury can result from vaccination tion. Facts prove the contrary ; and doubtless for every one published, there are hundreds which are never recorded. For reasons best known to himself, Dr. Lankester has refused to grant an inquest in the case of Mr. Moyes' child. To us it appears equally important that an inquiry should be held in those  . | 23 numerous cases of death caused by vaccination. It may suit a medical coroner who is anxious to perpetuate a practice so lucrative to his professional brethren, to publish one set of cases and suppress the other, but will hardly satisfy the public, who are beginning to see that vaccination has its dangers. Reasons Against Vaccination. Mr. W. Clarkson, of Selby, one of the ''martyrs," has sent several letters to the Selby Times. In one of his letters he says :-- I consider the Vaccination Laws cruel, oppressive, and unjust; and an infringement of personal liberty, ignoring (as they do) the rights of parents to inquire and judge what is the best treatment to promote the health of themselves and their children. In this opinion I am not alone,- Mr. Knox, of Marlboro'-street, having more than eighteen months ago dismissed a summons against a recusant parent with the remark-"TI think the parent is the most proper person to judge as to vaccination." Then as to vaccination itself, I object to it- 1.-Because it is not a preventive against smallpox , but, on the contrary, is in itself a fruitful source of disease. 2.-Because other diseases, such as scrofula, syphilis, pneumonia, &c., are communicable by vaccination. 3.-Because the vaccine virus is animal matter that has lived, is dead, and when invaccinated is in a state of putrefaction, and therefore a poison. 4.-Because exemption from smallpox and other diseases of the same class is not to be found by the practice of vaccination, but in the enforcement of wise sanitary regulations, whereby people may obtain pure water, good food, and the perfect deodorisation of sewage. 5.-Because my child is at present in good health, and to induce the disease caused by vaccination would be a folly and a crime. 6.-Because if vaccinated, I can obtain no guarantee that he would not suffer from such diseases as have repeatedly been known to follow vaccination. Such are my reasons for not complying with the law. I am sorry to disobey a magistrate's order; but I feel that the case stands thus-either I must violate my conscientious convictions and so sin against God, or otherwise refuse to yield obedience to the magistrate's order. I choose to take the latter course with all the consequences that may result from such decision, because I cannot do a thing which I feel to be wrong. A strong feeling is being aroused throughout the country against these iniquitous and tyrannical laws which is increasing in power daily, and the present agitation will not cease until they are expunged from the statute book of this kingdom. May God speed the day ! 24   the Anti-Caccinator. 32442 May 1st, 1872. The death-rate of England and Wales during the last thirty years, shows a steady increase. In the first report of the Registrar-General (p. 89), Dr. Farr writes :-It may be affirmed, without any risk, that it is possible to reduce the annual deaths in England and Wales by 30,000, and to increase the vigour (may I not add, the industry and wealth?) of the population in an equal proportion: for diseases are the iron index of misery, which recedes before strength, health, and happiness, as the mortality declines." This was penned by Dr. Farr when he was comparatively new to his work, in the heyday and fiush of hope, and without reckoning the disease-producing agency which, two years later, was introduced by the faculty, and which again, in 1854 and 1867, was enforced by special Acts of Parliament with even greater rigour. But, alas! ''the industry and wealth" of the empire are yet waiting for the promised diminution in the death-rate; and the hands on that 'iron index" which register the disease- rate and the mortality of the population always point above zero; and the horse-leech's cry of "" Give, give!" 1s pron to by Death-''Here they are: take, take!" If Dr. Farr '' would reduce the annual deaths in England and Wales by 30,000," he can do that easily. Let him renounce vaccination ; let him assist us to disestablish the profession, and let us have '' free medicine ;"-and the saving of 30,000 '' annual deaths"' will be as certain as that to-morrow's sun will rise. Aye, more than that. If we can accomplish these reforms, his 30,000 shall in three years hence represent a clear saving of 90,000 annual deaths, and the death-rate of England and Wales shall not exceed that of 1866; no, not for ten years to come ! [May 1, 1872. On the 6th May, 1871, we had the pleasure of an interview with Dr. Farr, and submitted to his inspection certain statistics bearing on the mortality, and showing that the death-rate follows the vaccination -rate. We intimated that every means had been used to obtain a hearing before the Select Committee on the Vaccination Acts, but without success. After haying gone through the tables, he said-'' The statistics aré very interesting. I think the Committee ought to see them. They have a very mportant bearing on the subject.' We mentioned to Dr. Farr the exceptional steps which had been adopted to gain an interview, and said that any further pressure would meet with a persistent denial; to which he replied-'' Well, I can only repeat what I have said before, the Committee ought to see them in their present shape.'' Those statistics will appear in future numbers of this journal. In his evidence before the Select Committee, Mr. Simon attempted to throw discredit upon the figures of the Anti-vaccinators, for (what he designated) ''lumping the death-rate,"' and for coming to the conclusion that there was a regular increase in the total mortality of the country. And he censured us for omitting from our considerations a lot of circumstances which augmented or diminished the mortality in particular localities, on the ground that a disturbing element in one or more places influences the grand total in that degree. Among the most prevalent sources of disturbance, he alluded to the large emigration from rural to urban districts; the frequent change of occupation in connection with the female part of the population, consequent on the introduction of new sources of manufacturing industry ; and to the proposition that the mortality is increased in times of commercial depression. This is, in truth, so much dust and glitter paraded before the judgment of the Committee and the public. We do not forget such factors, nor do we fail to appreciate their influence. Our reply is-that such considerations are not of that importance to induce us to give them a prominent place in a general view of the causes which affect the rise or declension of the deathrate; their operation is pretty regular, and has May 1, 1872.]  . 25 obtained in an equal ratio, or thereabout, in every successive year, from 1838 to 1871. Changes like these are not spasmodic, but proceed in accordance with well understood rules. But what are such circumstances, calculated as they are to prejudice the disease- rate and the death-rate, when contrasted with the amazing improvements, social and sanitary, which have been inaugurated and carried out during the last thirty years, and which, in their general and benign operation, ought to have maintained their supremacy over evil influences of a much inferior character? We say, that the mortality should have been decreasing, and not increasing. Any one of the causes above particularised can only be partial and local; but the rite of vaccination, whether for good or bad-and we say, decidedly bad-is a rite which practically affects the whole population, and to that extent 1s a factor of more importance than any other known cause. How essential, therefore, to ascertain and determine its yalue! If vaccination be a benefit, is it not strange that, combined with social and sanitary improvements, the mortality doesnot decline? If vaccination be a curse-and a curse it is-then the mortality must increase, in spite of hygienic measures, however comprehensive and _ beneficent, and however universal they may be in their application. In the presence of an increasing mortality there must be a special cause, and a cause equal to the effect; and that cause is vaccination nation, the engrafting of a special disease condition upon every child that comes into the world. Vaccination could never have obtained the footing it has in this island, had it not been, first of all, patronised by the great and mighty in the land, endowed by grants of public money, established by Acts of Parliament, and enforced by pains and penalties. Under these circumstances, what enormity so great as to resist the combined influences of such potent forces ? When kings and emperors, statesmen and women of high rank, smiled on Jenner and Jenner's vaccine dogma; when Parliament granted him the sum of £380,000 for his discovery ; and afterwards when the State made grants of public money to enforce the provisions of the Acts of Parliament, compelling an unwilling people to submit to the law,-opposition was disarmed, reason was powerless, and the country was cajoled into vaccination, and the ''reion of terror" has obtained from that day to this. Its days are numbered now! The arrow of the avenger has lodged in the heel of the foe; Jenner and his vaccination shall both perish in one day. Gold is a mighty power ; but the resistless tide of public opinion is mightier still, and must, perforce, assert its own omnipotence. Parliaments, in their ignorance or prejudice, may enact laws, the fate of which, as science and education are extended, is- that they shall be repealed, and pass into that obscurity from which they ought never to have emerged. And men who once patronised a blunder, who endowed a practice which has slain its millions, and who by law enforced a compliance against the feelings and conscience of the people, not only merit, but cannot fail to secure, an immortality where reproach and contempt will be their highest praise. We speak of the '' mortality of the people," the ''death-rate of England and Wales," as if they were normal and natural quantities. The mortality and death-rate of our race is an abnormal and unnatural thing. It is the mortality of a people who at birth have a superadded disease imparted to them, and with which they have to contend at a period when they are the least able to withstand it; a disease which it is now proved is not of a simple, but complex character. People once thought vaccination meant a mild form of smallpox, but it is now a solemn truth, built upon facts as real as existence itself, that something else is meant, and that in addition to cowpox, as it is called, there may be engrafted upon the human stock, syphilis, scabies, leprosy, or (in fact) any of the brotherhood of diseases, which, in all their tendencies on the public health, have but one object in view-destruction and death. The death-rate is that of a community whose offspring, doomed by the laws of the country to submit to vaccination- that thrice-accursed distillation of death-drop off one by one, at stages varying with their 26   {May 1, 1972. power of resistance, but in such numbers that, | in the end, only seventeen in every hundred ever reach ''old age." In all the recorded delusions which have afflicted the human race during the most barbaric times, and up through the middle ages, when ignorance and superstition enthralled the people, there is no equal to an observance which, at the present day, is the one great scourge of England and | Would to God that the mischief ended there! It does not, and our influence has rivetted the chains on other nations, where civilisation and knowledge are ill prepared to neutralice or-to check so fatal an example. And who,in our own day, is responsible for all this? Is the Parliament? No. Are the people? No. of her dependencies. the enforcement of 'vaccination, who uphold the grave deception, and who move the whole machinery, are Messrs. Simon, Seaton, and Marson. Upon the unscientific evidence and ' the wanton stupidity of these men, the legislature and the profession have been misled. Not the wealth of all the Indies would induce us to change places with either of the three names- names with which posterity will know how to deal. But, as Junius hinted to Lord Mansfield, we will from day to day collect the '' scattered sweets" of their death- doings, until their ''united virtue tortures the senses," and wrings from them the power thus to afflict the nation. The Amended Vaccination Act, 1872. The following is a copy of the Bil now before the House of Commons, brought in by Mr. Pease, Mr. Leeman, and Sir Thomas Chambers :- A Bill to Amend the Vaccination Acts. 1872. Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: 1. This Act may be cited as "The Vaccination Act, 1872." 2. This Act shall be construed as one with the Vaccination Act of 1867 and the Vaccination Act 1871, Who is it, then? | The three individuals who practically maintain and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as "The Vaccination Acts, 1867, 1871, and 1872." 3. After the passing of this Act no parent of a child shall be liable to be convicted for neglecting to take or to cause to be taken such. child to be vaccinated, or' for disobedience to any order directing such child to be vaccinated, if either- (a) He has been previously adjudged to pay the full penalty of twenty shillings for any of such offences with respect to such child; or, (6) He has been previously twice adjudged to pay any penalty for any of such offences in respect of such child. It will be seen that the intention of the Bill is simply to reinstate Clause 10 of the Act of 1871, which clause was rejected by the House of Lords by 8 to 7 votes. Now, although many of our readers are opposed to the principle of the Bill, we beg to urge their support of it. If the Bill should become law, it would not satisfy us for a single day: we should then agitate for total repeal. All legislation proceeds by short stages. Neither the House of Commons nor the country are educated up to a point where we should feel it safe to say-'' We will accept no compromise ; we will have all, or nothing." If the Bill passes both Houses, the next step will include total repeal, and nothing short of that. If it were then proposed to go back to '' optional"' vaccination, we should be the first to say-'' It must now be a penal offence," like its sister art, inoculation ; and the last to yield till our labours are crowned with success. One great advantage of this Bill, if carried, will be-that the numbers who will submit to one fine, when they know that will end the matter, will be considerably augmented; and the moral influence of that fact will materially assist us in our efforts to gain a total repeal of Acts which shall not long remain on the statutes, to the disgrace of the age in which our lot is cast. The Protective (?) Efficacy of Vaccination. -A Contrast.-There died in London of smallpox in 1853, the last year that vaccination was voluntary in. England, only 217 persons. There died of the same disease in the same city last year, when vaccination was enforced by a tyrannous law, and when re-vaccination was very general, no fewer than 7,886 persons. May 1, 1872.} - + smallPox in Dublin. . To the Editors of the Anti-Vaceinator, I regret to observe that smallpox is rather on the increase in Dublin. It might be asked-Where now is the profane and empty boasting of the Poor | Law Commissioners and their friends, that through vaccination they had stamped owt smallpox in Ireland? The sad, sad truth, as I believe, is-that smallpox has been artificially continued both by inoculation and vaccination. There is no doubt that 14 was continued by the former, which the medical profession patronised for so many years; and I incline to the belief that cowpox-or, as it is admitted to be, modified smallpox, vaccination-is, as it were, a seed-bed for the propagation of smallpox , which from time to time throws off its modified aspect, and appears in its true virulent character. The medical profession in Dublin have, for the most part, practically discarded re-vaccination, and have in this way made a step towards the rejection of vaccination. I have the pleasure of knowing several members of the profession in Dublin - gentlemen distinguished for ability, tolerance, and a spirit of inquiry-and there is a strong impression on my mind that this outbreak of smallpox in Jreland will alter the views of many among ther as to the value of Jenner's theory, and as to the policy, or wisdom, or right of the State turning doctor, and enforcing it, or any other medical theory, by a compulsory law. A few days ago, in Dublin, a member of the profession observed to me, that the State might take up the theory not long since started about syphilis, and _endeavour to enforce compulsory inoculation. Im truth, the mischiefs and absurdities of State compulscry medicine and surgery are endless. R. C. Hickson, J.P. April 4, 1872. The Bishop of Winchester, in his " Prayers and Rulés for District Visitors,' directs the visitor to inquire in families whether the children have been baptized, and whether all have been vaccinated ! Dr. John Watts, of Manchester, at a meeting for legalising marriage with a deceased wilte's sister, said that a law which could not be enforced, and the breach of which brought no disgrace, ought to be swept from the Statute-book. It may truly be said of the Compulsory Vaccination Act that it cannot be enforced, nor does the breach of it bring disgrace. Professor Newman says :-" The law-makers are (in my opinion) the real criminals before God and man. Parents who become martyrs by resisting the law, deserve a sympathy akin to those who are martyrs of religion." On these grounds, we intend to agitate until this uncalled-for and mischievous Act is swept from the Statute-book.  . 2? How to Help ''The Anti-Vaccinator." An Example. To the Editors of the Anti-Vaceinator. On reading the letter of Mr. Nye, in the last number of the Anti-Vaccinator, I felt unable to sit at my desk any longer till I had obtained a few subscribers for the new series of your periodical, Two hours' walking, with a copy of No.1 in my hand, gave me a dozen names, subscribing for a year, at 2/- each. I shall get the copies from London, and send them round. 'These twelve subscribers will be so many centres from which the Anti- Vuceinator will get circulated, and other subseribers obtained. Please print an additional 250 copies of No. 2 for me, and I will send one to every physician and surgeon in Bath (83 will be required for this purpose), and to the principal names in the lists of the clergy and teachers. Shall I get a single subscriber from the medical profession? Letus hope. I have confidence in the quiet operation of truth and fact on receptive minds. Bath, April 18, 1872. Isaac Pitman. A Little " Matter.' -The other day Master Alfred, who has just been re-vaccinated, was asked by his mama "how his arm was?' He groaningly replied :- "The incessant irritation of this beastly vaccination, is enough to vex-a-nation, and it nearly drives me wild. So I think that legislation should prohibit vaccination, and confer an obligation upon every living child.'' That's notso bad for a ten-year old victim; but suffering, especially undeserved, makes even a juvenile pen as sharp as a lancet.- Cosmopolitan. Unsound Filesh.- Thousands of tons are condemned; and all know that vast quantities which cannot be condemned are suspicious. Much meat is sold at a greatly reduced price, certainly, because the salesmen are peculiarly eager to get rid of it, Who, after this, can wonder that smallpox has increased upon us in the last 20 years? Who can doubt that the mass of our town population habitually eats a portion of its flesh-supply in an unwholesome state? No increased stringency of supervision can much abate the evil, while a people is striving to eat more sound meat than has come to market; for itis striving virtually for the impossible. The only cure is to be found in lessening the demand ; in persuading the masses of workmen that their competition for flesh meat is a folly, impoverishing and, perhaps, infecting them.-Professor F. 1 Newman. 28 Experience of an Emigrant. Our readers will remember the name of Geo. Brunswick. He wrote for the Anti-Vaccinator, and spoke earnestly against vaccination in his hygienic lectures. His pen has not been idle since crossing the Atlantic. The following letter from him, written at Salt Lake City, will be read with interest :- Friends,-The last time I wrote, I told you that I had decided to come to America. Hearing that the vaccinators took advantage of forcing emigrants to receive their filth before leaving the ship, I wrote to two shipping companies, asking protection against vaccination in case I should go by either of their lines. J received answers, in both cases, that if smallpox occurred during the voyage, the quarantine doctor in New York harbour had power to enforce vaccination upon all on board. Much as I disliked running the risk of getting into the clutches of the filth-hucksterers, I determined to face them, relying on the possibility of creating opposition to vaccination tion among the passengers. Before going on board the magnificent steamship " Nevada," in which I crossed the Atlantic, I folded up about 800 copies of my ballad, "The Vaccination Swindle,' and the same number of the verses on " Allopathic Doctors and their Diplomas-What are they ?" for distribution among the passengers. The first three or four days of the voyage nearly all on board, including myself, were sea-sick ; and no wonder, when the ship was so over-crowded that the atmosphere was offensive beyond description, with the exalations of the dense mass of living beings squeezed together beyond all sanitary limits. When our sea-sickness was over, a fine opportunity presented itself for reading, and Anti-vaccination tracts were welcome enough. I distributed some myself, and sent two boys into the forward steerage with some for the passengers there; whilst the second-cabin steward after breakfast handed copies to each of the saloon passengers, about 50 in number. I made up my mind that if any attempt was made to vaccinate me by force, I would offer muscular resistance to it; and several strong men expressed the same determination, Fortunately, we were saved the trouble, for no case of smallpox happened, so the quarantine physician went through the farce of staring in the passengers' faces, without learning how different his task would have been had he attempted to force his vaccine filth into our bodies. I distributed during the first week after my arrival a large number of my Anti-vaccination papers; and visited the editor of the Deseret News, George Q. Cannon, one of the Twelve Apostles. He seemed to agree with the statements I made as to the folly*and danger of vaccination; so I left for his perusal The Anti-Vaccitiator and [May 1, 1872. several numbers of the Anti-Vaccinator. He said that Professor Newman's Address contained some fine reasoning, and that he would show it to Orson Pratt. I afterwards addressed a letter to the editor of the Salt Lake Herald, which they kindly inserted, and a copy of which I have sent to you. Notwithstanding all this, I find that vaccination is largely practised here, for the people are, with some exceptions, as doctor-ridden as the population of England, there being several bald-headed quacks- and some of them orthodox doctors, too-resident in this city, professing to sell infallible hair-restorers. Of course, there is the leaven as well as the lump; for ina conversation I had with a thorough-going Mormon, I found him opposed to vaccination. He said-'If men would only obey the Levitical law, there would be no smallpox ; nor, indeed very little pox of any kind." * * * His statement was welcome to me, asa truth of the most stupendous magnitude; and I have no doubt whatever that this law, if observed, will rid mankind of the greater part of the immense sickness and suffering under which we now labour. Could we but make the laws of health universally known, we might ultimately deprive the blood-thirsty vaccinator of his victim, and the fee-extorting mystery-mongering doctor of his prey.-Yours respectfully, George Brunswick. A Doctor's Logic. - The following questions and answers are given in the evidence of Dr. W. Budd, of Bristol, in the second report of the Royal Sanitary Commission (page 51) :-''9,377.- When you stated that vaccination was not a certain preventative of smallpox, did you refer to the perfect and imperfect vaccinations together, or to perfect vaccination alone ?-I referred to perfect vaccination; and I may give an illustration :- Three members of my own family connection, two sisters-in-law and one of my own brothers, ad/ three of whom were vaccinated with the greatest possible care, two out of the three having been vaccinated more than once, nevertheless had the smallpox : two out of the three nearly died; one of the three tis very severely marked; and the third had the disease severely.'' '*9,378.--Can you give me the percentage of the persons who have contracted smallpox after having received a perfect vaccination tion ?-No, I cannot; it is very small, I believe. I have the highest idea of vaccination.' A curious logic, truly! Experience against vaccination: Opinion in favour of it. We need only add, that the italics are ours. An Inquirer, in reply to Dr. Marriott, says in the Midland Free Press:-The "strong evidence that vaccination prevents a person from taking small - pox," is counterbalanced by the stronger evidence that a great many vaccinated people die of smallpox. To the assumption that vaccination mitigates smallpox, the answer is the fact, that the vaccinated die in large numbers of smallpox; and there is no mitigated form of death. May 1, 1872.] Public Hein Journal. 29 Vaccination as Prosecutions. Chester-le-Street.-Mr. George Harle, on his ninth appearance before the magistrates, stated that he had conscientious scruples against the vaccination laws, which he considered were unnatural, and against the laws of God. He was anxious to do as well as any other person for his family; but as he had seen so much of the evil effects of vaccination, more especially:in his brother's family; and as a new Bill would shortly be passed, he trusted that the Bench would deal leniently with the charge. Defendant also intimated that rather than submit to what he considered wrong, he would leave the country. The Bench imposed a fine of 20/- and costs, or one month's imprisonment. Hurst. -I was this day had up at the Town Hall, Ashton, for the non-vaccination of my child. When they asked me my reason for non-compliance, I told them that the child was healthy, and that I objected to vaccination on the ground that I could not see how corrupt matter, the result of disease, could conduce to the preservation of health: but they silenced me by saying that they did not make the laws-they were only there to administer them ; therefore, they fined me 65/- and costs, which amounted to 16/6.-Jas. Burgess, 136, Alexandra-st. Newport (Isle of Wight).-Mr. John Raynes Deacon, draper, St. James'-square, was summoned on the information of Mr. Edward Phillips, vaccination tion officer, to appear, with his child, Rosa Eleanor Deacon, and show cause why an order should not be made upon him, directing him to have his child vaccinated.-Defendant asked if there was any law by which an innocent child could be compelled to appear before the magistrates?-The Chairman: Under this section, you are bound to produce your child.- Defendant said medical gentlemen were not of one opinion about vaccination.-The Chairman: We are not sitting here to discuss the expediency of vaccination: we have only to carry out the law.- Defendant said the Act was on such a slender thread that many guardians refused to enforce it.- Mr. Vulliamy : That is beside the question.- The Chairman again asked defendant why his child was not there ?-Defendant: Because he is not a criminal. -The Bench retired for consultation; and in the meantime, the defendant, on the advice of friends, had sent for his child.- On the return of the Bench into court, defendant said he was not aware that the presence of the child was necessary, as the case was admitted. Chairman: Do you show any cause why an order should not be made directing it to be vaccinated P- Defendant : No.-The Bench then made an order for the vaccination of the child in a month.-Mr. Stratton asked for costs, which were granted. Mr. Nubury Cranly Marshall, High-street, pork butcher, was also summoned to show cause why an order should not be made directing the vaccination of hig child, Stuart Geerge Marshall,-The Chair- It was now present.-The, man asked defendant if he had any cause to show against the making of an order.-Defendant asked why were certain persons to be pounced upon again and again, and others allowed to go altogether free? A large majority of the House of Commons was against a continuation of the Act; but it was carried in the Lords by a majority of one. Were the conscientious convictions of a large number of the people of this country to be set at nought through the opinion of that one man? If the law compelled him to have his child vaccinated, and serious results followed, would he receive any compensation? And it was very possible that evil would result from vaccination, for cases were being continually--The Chairman (to the defendant) : Have you any cause to show ?-Defendant: Only that this child is the healthiest of my family, and I wish to keep it so. Therefore, I object to have it vaccinated._-Lhe Bench ordered the vaccination of the child in a month.--On the application of Mr. Stratton, costs were allowed. Mr. James Hobbs, of Upper St. James'-street, medical botanist, was summoned to show cause why an order should not be made directing the vaccination of his child, Thomas Hobbs. -- The Bench made the same order as in the previous cases-the child to be vaccinated in a month.- Defendant made some remarks against vaccination ; and challenged Mr. Stratton to discuss the matter with him in the Queen's Rooms. (Laughter.)-Mr. Stratton said he was much obliged for such a tempting proposal. (A laugh.) To come to a more practical question, he asked for costs in this case also._-These were allowed.-- Defendant (placing his child on the table) said: If this child is vaccinated, and anything takes place detrimental to its constitution, I shall take proceedings against the Guardians. (Laughter.)-The costs in the three cases amounted to nearly £5, and the payment will be equally divided between the defendants. Selby. -To-day (April 17th) my house was entered by a policeman and auctioneer, and my goods taken away to cover fines and expenses, £4. ls. The articles could not be replaced for less than £9 or £10. We are left without a bedstead or table, and only two chairs to sit upon. We must leave the house now to go into lodgings. -W. Clarkson. Sheepshed -- Mr. Joseph Ward has suffered continuous and illegal persecution. He determined not to pay any fine or costs, and had made up his mind to go to Leicester Gaol; but his friend, Mr. Charles Mee, would not permit this, and paid the money, £2.6s. The people don't like vaccination, but they are timid. A public meeting would inspirit them. Stockport.-Mr. Thomas Riley, when summoned for refusing to vaccinate his child, proceeded to state that he had no faith in vaccination, one of his children having already been deplorably afflicted through that operation. For three months after the operation it was nursed on its mother's knee, covered with sores, and everything putrid about it, which 30   [May 1, 1872. -_-_-_ Mr. Gaskell, the late surgeon, could have proved. | Blood ran from its navel down its body; its eyes | were liver coloured, and it has been diseased ever since, through vaccination. Suffering, therefore, from secing his afflicted child, he considered it his duty as & parent, since 'prevention is better than cure," to prevent another child from being vaccinated. He believed there was a Supreme Power to regulate all things; and he did not believe that man could improve the wonderful works of God. He consequently had no faith in the present system of vaccination, and preferred that his child should remain as it was.---Mr. James Wheeldon was also summoned.-The defendant declared that he vbjected to the present system of vaccination. Several years ago he turned his attention to its evil results, and was led to believe that vaccine matter was the cause of tubercular consumption. -Both cases were adjourned. Sunderland. -Mr. Alfred John Pearce, homceopathic surgeon, was summoned for neglecting to have his child, Adolphus Victor Hugo Pearce, vaccinated. - Mr. Pearce, in answer to the charge, admitted that the child had not been vaccinated, and said it never should be. He regarded vaccination as unnatural, and opposed to the laws of both God and man. Compulsory vaccination was simply State murder.-Mr. McKenzie objected to the nature of the defendant's remarks.-Mr. Candlish: He is showing reasonable grounds for objecting to vaccination. -The Mayor (to Defendant): You are dealing with the commandments, and we all happen to be read up in them.-The Defendant said he also had legal objections to the order; and then cited the decision of metropolitan and other magistrates against such orders as were now sought for by Mr. McKenzie.-At the conclusion of the defence the bench retired, and aiter a consultation with the clerk, returned into court, when the Mayor said that they had decidel, not unanimously, but by a majority, to order the defendant to vaccinate his child within one month from the present time. A similar order was also made upon Mr. J. Priestly, chemist and druggist, Beach-street, Millfield, who had likewise pleaded conscientious objections.-Mr. Candlish: It is a majority of the bench only.- The Mayor: A large majority. Anti - Vaccination Concert concert in support of the funds of the Wrexenton and Highton Banks Anti-Vaccination League, was held in the Mechanics' Institute. The building was crowded. Mr. R. A. Lucas occupied the chair. Several excellent songs, glees, &c., were given by the choir. A petition to Parliament against the Compulsory Vaccination Acts was adopted unanimously by the meeting.- Newcastle Chronicle. It isabundantly clear that the Queen must have been suffering from some 'form of blood-poisoning. - The Standard. and Meeting. - A | - News, tetters, Xe. Ashton. -The Board of Guardians have sent a letter to the Local Government Board against altering the vaccination districts, whereby they would become, as a Guardian remarked, the '' vassals and slaves of the central body." There was an amusing discussion about the proper number of punctures; some of the Guardians complaining that the medical men were remiss in their allowance of cuts. Bridgwater. - Myr. Roberts, after having been summoned and fined many times, has obtained a "case"? for the Queen's Bench, with a view to try the legality of repeated magisterial penalties. Darlington.~-The Guardians have discussed the vaccination question again, and it is laughable to witness what one member of the Board called their ''awkward dilemma."' After much personal feeling had been vented on motions and counter-motions, it was resolved to petition against limitation of penalty. The League was both abused and defended. The petition honoured it with considerable notice. "Only" fifteen heads of families in Darlington, it stated, had conscientiously objected to obey the law. The League is strong in Darlington. Could not the members elect a few Anti-vaccinators, after the example of Newcastle, Sheffield, &c? The editor of the Darlington Mercury remarks :-'' It is really a preposterous matter to ask the Government to petition Parliament to restrict the fines for mnonvaccination to one. Obviously such a course is wrong. If vaccination is right in one case, it is right in all; and vice versa." Dr. Thomas, Hon. Secretary of the Newcastle-on- Tyne League, has been elected a member of the Board of Guardians. We trust he may, in consequence, be able to still further serve this movement. Be that as it may, we know that the Newcastle League has supplied from time to time much valuable information on the vaccination question to the members of the Board ; and there is reason to believe it has been the means of checking the violent persecution which disgraces many other towns, including Darlington and Chester-le-Street. There have been no prosecutions in Newcastle for more than twelve months. Leicester.-The Medical Officer of Health (Dr. Crane) in his report on the sanitary condition 'of Leicester for 1871, says :-''I wish I could announce that the prejudices against vaccination, so unceasingingly fostered by a certain class, were diminishing ; but this I fear is not the case." Dr. Crane may feel sure that the "prejudices against vaccination '"' will increase, and not diminish. If he wants facts to erew the evils of vaccination, Leicester will furnish them. j May 1, 1872.] Majlton. - Dr. Sexton writes:-On the fcllowing evening I should have lectured at Malton, in Yorkshire. Large posters had been issued, and advertisements inserted in the newspapers announcing my coming, but at the last moment the hall in which the lecture was to have been given was refused. <A telegram was therefore forwarded to me at Gainsborough, requesting me not to go. The next day a letter arrived, from which I learned that the agent of Earl Fitzwilliam had been mainly instrumental in preventing the meeting from being held. I shall go to Malton yet, however, despite the noble Earl and those in authority under him. Our movement has right on its side, and it will in the end overcome all opposition. The time may come when Lord Fitzwilliam and his class will have quite enough work on hand to maintain their own position, without lending assistance to uphold the rotten fabric of State physic. As I have elsewhere written- We bow not to your lordly birth, your proud and ancient line; your fathers may have ruled the earth by so-called right divine ;- but virtue is more lofty far - than rank, or princely blood, and Nature's nobles ever are the wise, the pure, the good. Manchester. - Mr. Edward Heywood, on being again summoned, contended that there was no evidence to show that his child was not vaccinated, and his summons said nothing about the production of a certificate : so the case was dismissed. Middleton. - The Rev. Wm. Hume- Rothery has sent letters of remonstrance to the Karl of Dufferin (Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster), and four magistrates, respecting the persecution of Mr, Thos. Okell, who, as a loving and conscientious father," endeavours to protect his child from disease, and is thereupon punished, "according to law." Mr. Hume-Rothery forcibly demonstrates the injustice of the Compulsory Vaccination Acts, the injuriousness of vaccination, and reminds the magistrates that many of their class constantly disregard the Smoke Act; he also points out that they are not bound to enforce acts which violate conscience and the law of God. Northampton.- The Board of Guardians have resolved to carry out the provisions of the Compulsory Acts, and directed summonses to be taken out against those who had not complied. The borough magistrates held a special session, and 120 cases were brought before them. In some cases heavy fines were inflicted. These severe measures have only made smallpox more prevalent. Mr. Charles Gilpin, one of our Members of Parliament, does not approve of this persecution, At a public meeting in the Town Hall, Mr. Gilpin said he voted for Mr. Candlish's clause, which was struck out by the Lords; adding :-''I denounced that action as unfair and unjustifiable. I have, therefore, cast in my lot with those who do away with the penalties for non-vaccination."'  . eu Over-Darwen.-I gave my essay against vaccination tion, and am glad to inform you that I found more Anti-vaccinators than I anticipated.-Henry Almond. Ripley (Derbyshire). - Dr. Sexton, has recently lectured here against vaccination. The chair was taken by the Rev. EH. H. Jackson, a Baptist minister. He informed the audience that he had been revaccinated three weeks ago, as had also his wife and servant, and that he was quite a believer in vaccination, having heard nothing to the contrary. After the lecture, he created considerable amusement by telling the audience that it would be many a three weeks before he would be vaccinated again. Rushden. - The friends of Spiritualism in this village, vigilant in every effort whereby the public mind may be enlightened, got up a meeting in the fine new Temperance Hall, to hear J. Burns, of the Progressive Library, deliver a lecture on " smallpox and Vaccination." The lecture produced a good effect; and there was evidence that the tactics of the Government doctors were not sympathised with in the village. When the smallpox visited the place some time ago, the only one who died of the disease was a person who had been vaccinated.- The Medium. Shefield.- The efforts made by the League to influence the election of guardians have not been fruitless. Mr. Wm. Fox, our staunch friend, has been re-elected. Mr. Robertshaw is thought to be "safe." Mr. Peel, Mr. Bacon, and Mr. Barkworth, are also against compulsion. Mr. Alderman Beal, who introduced the deputation to Mr. Mundella, M.P., and presided at Mr. Pickering's lecture, is a great gain to our side. The old board gave us only two votes ; on the new board we shall have five out of the eight. St. Heliers, Jersey.- Will you oblige by sending me the Anti-Vaccinator. In consequence of a few cases of smallpox having appeared in this island, the question of vaccination is beginning to occupy public attention. I should like to have all the facts and evidence against it, as I am opposed to it. At present vaccination is not compulsory with us.- William IF. Beakbane. Warrington.-The prevalence of smallpox, and the discharge of Mr. Spinks, the public vaccinator, has caused a stir amongst the Guardians. Dr. Ballard was sent down by the Local Government Board, and he reported that Dr. Spinks had " failed in several respects to conform to the regulations," such as recording the source of the lymph, keeping his lancet clean, deputing an unqualified person to act for him, and causing fatal cases of erysipelas. The Guardians were indignant that Mr. Spinks should be removed without consulting them. The local officials and the public are beginning to see the dangers of vaccination, and the tyranny of centralisation. 32 The Anti-Vaccinator. [May 1, 1872. Anti-Vaccination Song. By W. J. Wilcockson, Manchester, Air-'' Woodman, Spare that Tree." Doctor! spare that child! cut not its little arm, its blood shan't be defiled with filthy vaccine charm. 'Twas thy forefathers blind who invented this dire blot ; so, doctor, know our mind- this lymph we'll have it not! That poisonous upas tree- whose glory and renown long spread o'er land and sea- we mean to hew it down. Doctor, forbear thy stroke, cut not its healthy skin ; 'tis cruel, too, beyond rebuke, to put foul matter in. When but a little boy, brought to its baneful shade, Mother had no gushing joy when that foul stab was made, She kissed me on my cheek, and tried to lull my pain, too full almost to speak- 's Poor wee one, ne'er again! '"¢ My heart-strings round thee cling, my darling child. Oh, heaven! must babes have this cruel thing, unleaven to make them leaven ?"' No, no! the storm we'll brave, bid doctors stop this rot ; while we've a hand to save, their lymph shall harm them not. Vaccination not Prophylactic.- 'The following letter from the Lancet was addressed to the editor by "Walter Lewis, Medical Officer in Chief, Medical Department, General Post Office, London" :-'T have always maintained that vaccination is quite as good a preventative of smallpox as a previous attack of the disease itself. In the following instances, neither the one nor the other acted prophylactically. To-day, a letter-carrier presented himself to me, who has two children, aged respectively nine and five. They were both, he assures me, successfully vaccinated in infancy; both subsequently had smallpox, and are again attacked with it at the present time." Anetrrs to Correspondents. Mee eet seer A Sect Se oe tae cat te, of San et Sen ne" Se, oF May 8? aoe" en eel ten se? ape Sense Me se M0 ger(r) ens! Men ee "* Dr. Garth Wilkinson.''-We beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, enclosing a cheque for £3, a donation from Miss Caroline Goldsmid, of Lynwood. We shall apply it, as requested by you, in the circulation of 1,000 copies of No.1 of the Antz- Vaccinutor in quarters where we think it will be of essential service to the object in view. " Isaac Pitman" (Bath).-Accept our thanks for the interest you have taken in extending the circulation of the Journal in Bath. In order to encourage similar efforts elsewhere, we shall be glad to supply our friends with copies of any number of the Journal at the rate of 6/- per 100. This arrangement to remain in force until withdrawn by future announcement, All orders must be accompanied by P. O. Orders; or for single hundreds payment may be made in stamps. "' D." (Sheffield). - Your letter cannot be inserted, although we believe all your statements may be true. The returns of the medical officers of Sheffield are doubtless prepared on the same principles as those we investigated in Leeds. Unsupported statements, however, cannot be received as evidence thereof. We advise you to obtain a return of the names and addresses of all the patients, and to make a personal canvass, and obtain declarations in writing. Such evidence will compensate you for all the labour and expense attending the investigation. We urge you by all means to go into this inquiry at once; and we venture to prophesy that your "facts" will confirm our statements, that medical statistics are prepared with undeviating inaccuracy, and are wholly untrustworthy. " Medical Statistics.''--We may, in a short time, publish the articles containing the refutation of the statistics of the medical officers of the Leeds Union, in a separate form. If time permits, it is our intention to publish a paper in No. 3, entitled-'"' Notes of a Tour through the Haunts of the smallpox in Leeds." In that case all the articles should appear together, and in as cheap a form as possible. ""Anti-Vaccinator."'-For your informaticn, and that of our readers, we have pleasure in stating that 6,000 copies of No. 1 were printed, two-thirds of which are now in circulation, and orders are still being received. We shall not be content with a circulation of less than 10,000 copies fortnightly. Our friends must bestir themselves, Notice to Subscribers. The '* Anti-Vaccinator" can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in country districts, at the following rates, viz. -- Single copy, for 6 months Do. aa as All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance, in stamps, addressed to 30, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. . The Anti-V accinator, and  . es Edited by John Pickering, F.S.S., Springfield Mount, Leeds, and Henry Pitman, Phonetic Institute, 41, John Dalton Street, Manchester. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. RE All Communications to be sent to the Editors, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 3. | New Series. [ Price One Penny. Registered for Transmission Abroad, ay 15, 1872. Contents, Page Letter from Professor Newman 38 Pretended Refutation of Professor Newman 34 Notes of a Tour through the Haunts of the asec er see soe Sniall POs CCASi revere creie o1e slob s "siete". ofe'e 36 Radical Vaccination ...... siaidvobeie stalerepe oe teeie be oy) smallPox in Sunderland ..... DE OCH OOO ROaC 42 rouceliannves fh) dine e3cs SoGdO OOO OIDOOCHOOOCGC Atos 23 Walecinabous! ab tViALIAIN COs (i ci. Te "siciels oe e\si vss) st 44 Prosecutions :- Sunderland and Manchester 44 etcersco MMasStansteld,McB.. ict 65. is cca -- 45 VWacemanonm Hallaciest! 6.1. efci.'s.. vice nideellese 46 Protest against Compulsory Vaccination.... 47 Persecution and Presentation at Middleton.. 47 rvenard: BUGlErIGibDS sacecseacdemeces cuiace te 48 The Press :-Fatal Isolation-The Times .... News :-Contest in Carisbrooke, 35; Selby, 39; King's Lynn, 47. 48 Letter from Professor Newman. | Addressed to the Committee of the Sheffield Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League, and read at the public meeting held at the Temperance Hall, on Friday evening, the 5th April last. ] Gentlemen, Tam truly glad that a town of the magnitude and influence of Sheffield should move against the cruelty and unconstitutional violence of compulsory vaccination. It is simply impossible that Englishmen worthy of the name-Hnglishmen who love freedom; Englishmen who are willing to give just rights to all-should persevere in enforcing an iniquitous medical despotism, when they learn the actual state of the case. But the sufferers must be aided to make their voices heard in the midst of the din of party cries, and the distraction of so many urgent public questions. Few public men are aware on how many sides the vaccination mania is absurd and ridiculous as a sanitary precaution. Few are aware that the doctors who dread, and inspire dread of, smallpox, are justly open to the imputation of medical ignorance; inasmuch as other practitioners of the healing art- men with medical degrees, and men (yes, and women) of unblemished veracity -declare that they cure smallpox easily and safely, and that itis a very mild disease, except when treated by stupid practitioners, on whom we have a right to charge most of the deaths by smallpox , by which they frighten timid rich men into re-vaccination. But our main immediate work is to insist that our Parliamentary representatives shall think and judge of sanitary questions by common sense, and not yield it and us up to medical despotism. We are often glad to consult experts, but must never endure that experts in any branch whatever should impose compulsory law. But it is also important that the vanity of the medical arguments for vaccination be exposed. I believe that Mr. Pickering of Leeds is a master of this subject, and will do it with great ability. I therefore find no reason to regret that I cannot.remain myself in Sheffield to-day, thoughit would have been to me a pleasure to be present at your meeting. -I am, yours truly, April 5, 1872. Francis W. Newman. 34 The Anti-VWaccinator and [May 15, 1872. The Pretended Refutation or Prof, Newman. The Lonion Hospital Statistics have for some time been in daily and constant use by vaccinators throughout the country, andarecited by them as proofs of what those populations may expect who refuse to submit to the infliction of their undignified nostrum. But when Professor Newman uses the same statistics, and shows the conclusions to which they lead, he is told by Mr. Mordey Douglas (of Sunderland) that the 'so-called facts on which he rests his argument have no existence." He is told that the patients in the London smallpox Hospital being supplied by the London population, he should have based his statements on the people of London exclusively. If this bs so, all the statistics inflicted upon us by the vaccinating party are irrelevant, for they apply only to the places where they occur. Mr. Douglas ought himself to follow the advice he thus tenders. He breaks his own rule when he says--'' The chance of the vaccinated recovering is, according to Mr. Marson (of the London smallpox Hospital) nearly four times greater than that of those who have previously had smallpox :' and it is almost ludicrous to read, n the light of this remark, Mr. Douglas's very opposite statement-that Jenner never expected vaccination to protect against subsequent smallpox any more or any less than smallpox liself; and that it is therefore 'unreasonable to blame vaccination for not doing more than its discoverer and the medical profession claim for it.' Mr. Douglas generalises from these same hospital statistics to prove the unvaccinated die at the rate of 365 per cent.; yet,according to his own dictum, the fact is a "so-called fact," which applies to this hospital only. He generalises from these statistics to serve his purpose, and refuses that privilege to others. Thus he gives allegations from India, and vague tales of distant '' Puynipet," although his argument against Professor Newman requires that such statistics prove nothing as to the consequences of smallpox elsewhere. 'The proportions of vaccinated and unvaccinated in the late Sunderland epidemic, which might have been of real service, are not given, although a selection is made and appears in his preface. Vaccinators use their statistics as children use their dolls; one day they hold them up to universal admiration, another day they treat them with contempt. Let us estimate the dependence to be placed on the statistics relied upon by Mr. Douglas, by examining that on which most stress. is laid by his party-that in this London hospital the unvaccinated die at the rate of 35 per cent. Our readers will form (c) their own conclusions from the following question and answer, in the Vaccination Committee of the House of Commons last year, addressed by the chairman to Mr. Simon, the friend of Mr. Marson :- Right Hon. Mr. Forster: "Do you think it at all probable that any of those persons who are reported by. the statistics of the smallpox Hospital as having died, not having been vaccinated, may have been successfully vaccinated, although the traces are not evident ?"' Answer of Mr. Simon: "I think it very improbable that any of those patients had been what a critical vaccinator would call properly vaccinated. That among them there may have been some that a slovenly man would on the eighth day have called successfully vaccinated, I can believe." The intimation that unvaccinated nations are lable to die of smallpox at the rate of 35 per cent. may further be proved to be impossible. The death rate of vaccinated populations from all causes may be estimated, as in England, at or near 25 per thousand per annum. Unvaccinated populations have smallpox as an additional cause of death, attacking all (according to the vaccination hypothesis) and killing one-third; and we are thus landed and stranded in the absurd conclusion that China, whose population increases more rapidly than our own, has a death-rate heightened above that of England by this 35 per cent. from smallpox! It is of no service to allege that Chinese epidemics are few and mild, by reason of the national peculiarity which causes them to remove into the fields their town manure as fast as it accumulates. We do not need to be reminded of that. But the vaccination hypothesis is-that ali mankind are liable to smallpox unless saved by the vaccination atonement. Neither is it of any service to allege the miraculously illogical excuse that vaccination does not propose to render us immortal, but leaves us to die of other diseases. This argument might be applicable, if these other diseases destroyed life on the same day as the one in which we are saved by vaccination from death by smallpox, but not otherwise. Vaccinators are confused by the use of the statistical word death-rate. Saving life by vaccination means lengthening life, orit means nothing. A higher ora lower death-rate, means a shortening or lengthening of life respectively, or it means nothing. The statement which Mr. Douglas so unavailingly attempts to refute, is that in which Professor Newman says - 'It is admitted that on the average of recent years, in the experience of the London smallpox Hospital, full four-fifths of the patients have been vaccinated. The Registrar-General tells us that on an average of four years only 65:5 per cent. of the English people were vaccinated: that is, less than two-thirds, 'Thus the vaccinated two-thirds furnish four-fifths of the smallpox cases, while the unvaccinated one-third furnish only one-fifth : that is, the vaccinated are twice as liable to smallpox as the unvaccinated," May 15, 1872.) Now, Mr. Marson, in his evidence, says that from 1852 to 1867 the number of vaccinated patients who entered the smallpox Hospital was 10,671, and of unvaccinated only 2,920. About four-fifths, therefore, on the average of these sixteen years, were vaccinated. Mr. Douglas repeatedly generalises from the statistics of this hospital, and he is inconsistent in disallowing the use of them to others. The remaining fact, which Afr. Douglas says '' has no existence,' is the meaning which Professor Newman attaches to the statement that on an average of four years only two-thirds of the English people were vaccinated. Mr. Douglas says that "The Registrar-General did not refer to the whole of the English people, but only to the children born in the years quoted." This remark is a veritable Trish bull, and an interesting specimen of that Celtic peculiarity. Whenever our law shall require the compulsory annual re-vaccination of every individual, the Registrar-General will doubtless be prepared to give us the percentage of the annual vaccinations of the whole English people. Until the coming of that blissful time, the Registrar- General will confine his figures to the actual number of the annually vaccinated ; and they, by custom and by law, have until lately consisted nearly wholly of children. We now proceed to place two statements of Mr. Douglas in unpleasant juxtaposition. One is, that "* The decline of smallpox is principally due to vaccination."'? 'The other is, '' The present epidemic is the most fatal within the memory. of man." What is the inference Mr. Douglas wishes us to draw from these conflicting statements? We agree with Mr. P. A. Taylor's remark in the Vaccination Committee-"If smallpox had increased, vaccination tion could hardly be said to have banished it at all, could it °"' We are able to rectify an omission in the paragraph which says the vaccinated white troops of Western Africa escaped smallpox entirely, while the unvaccinated black population died by hundreds. The War Office Report for the 20 years ending 1836, says of these same white troops -"' One half died every year from fever, diarrhoea, and ulcers." Little opportunity was left for smallpox. We do not meet with any reference in this pamphlet to the vaccination of stag and fox hounds practised by Jenner. It failed-probably from his neglect to re-vaccinate the. puppies at the age of puberty. If anyone in these days were seriously to go tothe kennels and propose to vaccinate the hounds, he would be fortunate if he escaped the lunatic asylum! Neither is it at all distinctly stated by this writer whether vaccination or re-vaccination is the one thing needful. At the commencement, vaccination is all in all; towards the conclusion, it is re-vaccination. "cowpox,"' says Mr. Douglas, "is smallpox rendered harmless by passing through the system of the cow." No--cowpox is arm-to-arm conveyance  . | | | es, of disease through successive generations of children since Jenner's day. The old smallpox inoculation was arm to arm conveyance through successive generations of children Jefore Jenner's day. Names change-thingsremain. The hymnody of praise of the virtues of smallpox inoculation by Drs. Buchan, Mackenzie, and others, before Jenner's time, sounds wonderfully like the egregious and egotistical laudation so constantly in use by our modern vaccinators, of themselves, their leaders, and their nauseous practice. By inoculation (says Mackenzie, writing in the last century) numbers are saved from deformity as well as from death. Buchan, in 1783, says-''The numbers who. die under inoculation hardly deserve to be named. By inoculation, not one Ina thousand dies. Nay, some can boast of having inoculated ten thousand without the loss of a single patient." (Domestic iicdicine, 7th, edit.,, 233.) The theory of vaccination given by Mr. Douglas is far-fetched, and difficult to comprehend. His "nabulun of susceptibility' reaches toa metaphysical depth which requires a "solution of continuity'? in our mental powers for its reception. So the child at its birth is full to overflow of this pabulum of susceptibility, which it could not have. obtained from either parent, they having been. vaccinated successfully in infancy, and the operation having been repeated successfully at the age of puberty! Isle of Wight.-A Contest in Carisbrooke. -'The election of Guardians for the parish of Carisbrooke gave rise this year to a strong and (as the result proved) exceedingly close contest. In addition to the five retiring Guardians, Mr. Edward Frederick Blake, solicitor, was nominated. Mr. Blake is well and widely known as a strong opponent of compulsory vaccination. As such he was urgently solicited to come forward; and as such he received the support of a large number of the ratepayers of Carisbrooke, who placed him second on the poll. View the matter in whatever light we may, there is no gainsaying the fact that Mr. Edward F. Blake owes his election to his persistent opposition to compulsory vaccination; and though we ourselves have faith in Jenner's discovery, we cannot but regard Mr. Blake's return as a decided and loud- voiced protest, if not against vaccination altogether, at least against its present compulsory character. As Mr. Blake remarked, in an address of thanks to the ratepayers-''In proof of the fact that my views are shared by a majority of the ratepayers of his parish, I need only point to the votes which have been recorded in my favour. These have not only placed me second on the list of successful candidates, and not only represent all classes and all shades of political opinions, but, with the exception of a few who supported me partly on grounds of private friendship, they are the votes of persons who could have had no other motive for clecting me than that of principle, and on public grounds."'- Hampshire Lndependent. 36   [May 15, 1872. Notes of a Tour Through the Haunts of the smallPox in Leeds. By Dr o. Pickering iP Ses. What absurd notions people have of smallpox and its haunts, and how afraid they are lest it should pay them a visit! True, the head of the medical department of the Privy Council may issue a manifesto, '"' Vaccinate, Vaccinate!"' and at another time he may shout " Re-vaccinate, Re-vaccinate !"' the Local Government Board in London may send instructions to Boards of Guardians to placard each ward of our large towns-and city, town, and village are plastered over with huge bills-and rich and poor hurry off to the vaccinator to be empoisoned with the filth of Jennerism, as if that would save them! We shall see. An observant man ought to get some useful information after a house-to-house visit into 74 cases of smallpox which occurred in Leeds in the six weeks from January 29 to March 9, 1872, the particulars of which were given in No. 1 of this journal. If an imaginary line were drawn due north and south of the town of Leeds, through Briggate as the central point, nearly the whole of the 74 cases were found in the eastern district-that is, in the old part of the town, where the death-rate in any given year is always the heaviest, whatever epidemic happens to be in the ascendancy-typhus, scarlet-fever, cholera, or smallpox, &c. The cases may be divided into two classes- persons living in unsanitary conditions, and persons whose health is depreciated either from excesses of one kind or other, or from hereditary taint; the latter succumb the soonest, and their symptoms are the worst through each stage of the disease. There is no difficulty in understanding that characteristic. | 1. Persons Living in Unsanitary Conditions. Relation 1.-In a narrow street leading out of Kirkgate, I entered a two-roomed house-kitchen, and bedroom above-each about fourteen feet square and nine feetinheight. Inthe kitchen sat father and mother and two children. They had three children. The eldest, a girl, had just come from the smallpox Hospital; the second, a girl, had just gone thither ; and the third, a fine muscular boy of three years, lay on his mother's knee ina high state of the fever, just preparing to go. I could smell the smallpox as I entered the door of that house; the ventilation was as imperfect as ignorance aid what little art they had could make it ; and the want of water was as apparent on the floor of the house-yea, on the very walls-as on the bodies of those who tenanted this fever-breeding abode. 'There was a damp black space on the south-east side of the room, reaching about fifteen inches from the ground. I did not stay to inquire whether it was the drainage, or the contiguity of the house to a convenience which I need not describe, but which abounds in this district in the proportion of one to perhaps ten or twelve tenements, and being the common property of the neighbourhood, is attended to by nobody in turns. I pointed to that black line, and, addressing the father, I said-'" If you care for your children, you will be out of this house to-morrow at sunrise.' "Why?" said he. 'Don't you see the smallpox creeping up the side of the house there? the very air you breathe is charged with it,' Ireplied to him. The poor man seemed as though I were talking in a strange language. Did these people want vaccination, to prevent their having the smallpox? If they did, they had it, for all but one had undergone the operation, and she had been certified "unfit'' on account of illness from her birth. What did they want as a protection against disease? 'To live in a healthy house, and to have their children properly attended to. The smallpox would never have come nigh their dwelling under such circumstances. But here they were living in a house which was a hotbed for disease, and where five human beings were huddled together in a space which, if it had been healthy in its construction and surroundings, was yet not big enough for any two of them. Is it a matter of surprise that the smallpox should descend upon such a home as this? The only mystery to me is, that smallpox should ever be absent from like abodes, where every condition is present which can favour the development of disease. The poor woman evidently mistook my mission : she thought I had gone to blame her for not having had the girl vaccinated who was certified ' unfit." She burst into tears, and said-"I do indeed regret now that she was not vaccinated.' I observed to her- "It is absurd to regret that she was not vaccinated, seeing that the others, who were duly vaccinated, have all had the smallpox: if vaccination tion were no protection to three, it would not have been any protection to the fourth. Does this not show you that smallpox takes no account of vaccination as a prophylactic, if you are living in unhealthy conditions?' '" Well, it does seem so," said the woman. I fear the people are in the house yet ; and another year's typhus or scarlet-fever will thin the family, as sure as fate; and health officers and doctors will take no account of the previous disease- history of that domicile. Just as I was leaving, the woman observed-' The doctor wants both me and my husband to be re-vaccinated." "Tell your doctor,' I replied, "that you do not require re-vaccination ;.- what you want is to get out of this May 15, 1872.] house, and to live in a healthier neighbourhood." I believe I left her a convert to that opinion, and thus may have cheated the doctor of his fee, and possibly the grave of a victim. Relation 11.-In a wretched hovel, near to the Marsh-lane Station, [ founda mother and three children, the fourth child was at the smallpox sheds. Themother was as slatternly as rags and poverty could make her. The hopelessness of despair was burnt in upon every feature; still, anyone could see that the object before me, some ten or fifteen years ago, might have been a tidy, active, and steady servant in a family, where not one of whom would now be able to recognise their former domestic. I read the history of the woman before she opened her lips. The furniture in the apartment would not pay for taking possession of it to recover a week's rent of 3/-; and the children looked as if they had not been well washed since the day they were born. I said to her-'' I need not ask you how the smallpox got here: the truth is, that it could not have passed your door if it would." ''Howso?" said she. ' Don't you know," I answered, "that cleanliness is next to Godliness?' "I have no money for neither soap nor towels: it is bread we want," said she, speaking with a heart as heavy as a lump of lead. ' What," I said, "'he spends all his earnings at the public- house, and leaves you to fight with poverty at home?" "That's about it: to-day's Saturday, and it's five o'clock, and we haven't a bite in the house."' At this recital I felt like Bridaine, the missionary priest in the palmy days of France, who, preaching to a courtly audience, his mind went back to those among whom his lot was cast; and, in the bitter accents of self-reproach, he accused himself thus :- '"' What have I done? I have offended the best friends of my God, for I have preached the rigours of penance to a people most of whom wanted bread." There was I, preaching the rigours of cleanliness to a woman who "wanted bread'"' for her children, and in whose house there was neither towel nor soap! How could she keep the smallpox from her door ? She has saved her offspring from the destroyer this year; but what about the typhoid or the scarlet fever another year? Her brood is marked for death. It isin homes like these that zymotic diseases find their food and sustenance ; and not until the profession give up such absurd practices as vaccination, will the people begin to learn that they can save themselves, if they will: and when the man is found who neglects to protect his own children, the little ones should be taken from him, brought up in an hospital, as is done in Russia, and the father should be compelled to pay for their support. These children should not be left to perish without a hand held out to save them. Did the members of this household want vaccination tion to save them from smallpox ? Not at all-they had it. And yet the fever seized them one by one. But if the father had been worthy of the name he bears, his children need have known nothing of  . oe LN aero the disorder. It was not vaccination, but cleanliness and food, that this family required as a protection against the 'pestilence that walketh in the night watches." 2. Persons whose health is depreciated, either from excesses of one kind or other, or from hereditary taint. Relation III.-In the same _ neighbourhood, within the shadow of St. Peter's Church, I entered a lodging-house tenanted by an Irishman, and inquired if a certain young man had been recently sent from that house to the smallpox sheds. "Yes, and faith he was,' said the host. ' Well," said I, "can you tell me anything about him, who he was, and where he came from ?"' '" Nae, that I can't,' answered Patrick ; and turning to his wife-" Bridget, can ye tell the gintleman owt about him?' All that Bridget knew about him was, that the man was a drunkard, and had an aunt living " off Duncan-street.'' After some trouble I found the aunt. I told her that her nephew was now a corpse in the smallpox sheds, and I inquired his history. '' His history!" said the woman, "'tis that of thousands, and will be that of thousands more. He has not a relation left in the wide world but me. He was born at Headingley, near Leeds. Hisfatherand mother were respectable, and at their death there was a little left for the son; but he had got into bad company; he drank, spent his all in riotous living, until at last, a mere skeleton of what he was, the smallpox found him in one of the lowest filthiest lodging-houses in the town, the resort of beggars, prostitutes, and thieves.'"' From that house he was taken to the smallpox sheds, he died there, and was buried in a pauper's grave! That is his history-as brief as sad, truly. Did this youth want vaccination to save him from smallpox? His case is one of those entered "unknown." But in the absence of reliable information, it 1s easy enough to predict that if he had known how to live, the smallpox would never have made a prey of him. He courted disease and death, and they both came when they were sent for-not before. In his condition, vaccinated or unvaccinated, nothing could have saved his ruined body: he was the arbiter of his own destiny. Death in any shape to him was all the same; if smallpox had not come to his aid, typhus or delirium would: the end was there, what mattered it to him by what means? Who, in his senses, would talk of vaccination as a protection against disease, in the presence of a life like that? Such a thought is monstrous! Relation TVY.--In a healthy district, westward of the town, I inquired how the smallpox came into a house where it ought not to have been found. 'Three children were in the sheds, and a fourth was sickening of the fever-all unvaccinated; two of the three in the sheds lay dead. The mystery was cleared up in a 38   [May 15, 1872. trice. . All the children were certified "unfit'"' from birth-they were afflicted with hereditary scrofula. "Yes," I inquired, ''but how came the smallpox here?" 'The truth is,' said the father, 'my family only came to Leeds a few days ago from Bilston, in Staffordshire, where the smallpox was very bad, and the oldest girl was taken ill the same night she arrived in Leeds. She had evidently been infected before she left Bilston." This was all as clear as day; unhealthy from birth, they were an easy prey to the smallpox, or would have been as easy a prey to anything else. 'The oldest girl (deceased many years ago) was vaccinated when she was two years old at Newcastle-under-Lyme, and she perished of the operation. 'A more terrible. death than the smallpox,"' said he. Would vaccination have saved them P killed one, and would have killed the others as certainly if they had been submitted toit. All that they wanted, was a healthy body at birth, and healthy surroundings in after-life: failing to possess the first, they had not power to resist the intluence of a contagious atmosphere, but fell together, like the leaves in autumn. Relation V.-In another healthy district I discovered, after no small trouble, the lodgings of a girl who had recently died in the sheds. The house was well furnished, neat and clean in its arrangements; and the woman of the house was an orderly, intelligent person. "How did the smallpox find its way into your house:'"' 'That is indeed. a mystery," said she, "for none of us, either before or since, have had the disease, and the girl only left her place a few days ago; and from sympathy with her, as I knew her married sister, I offered her a bed until she found another situation: but I cannot find any clue as to how she took the smallpox." 'Was she a strong girl, do you think?' 'No,' she replied, "she has always been an ailing girl; still, not so as to oblige her to give up work.' 'Where had she been the day before that on which you say she first complained of her illness?' Iasked. 'She had been all day at different register offices waiting about to be engaged."' ''Had she any wounds about her hands, face or neck?" I inquired. '' Why, sir,' said she, with surprise, ''now that you ask me, I remember she had. Alt the backs of her hands were full of cracks, and they bled very much: but really what has that to do with it?' I said-'' She doubtless got inoculated either by contact, or by absorption in an infected atmosphere; perhaps in a friend's house." I have but little doubt the poor girl met with her death in that way. Thousands of children, every year, perish in a similar manner, after vaccination. The mother takes them home, or calls on a friend by the way ; and, ignorant of the terrible danger arising from an open wound, the child's arm is exposed to an atmosphere where fever germs are floating about, and the child is smitten down, as it were, in a moment, and no one knows where the mischief had its origin. A physician in Leeds told me of a singular incident, confirmatory of 'the above state- No ; for it ment. Some few months ago a little girl brought (c) "baby" to be vaccinated.. The operation was performed, and baby went home, and was a corpse in eight or ten days; and the certificate bore upon the face of it, as the cause of death, '" erysipelas after vaccination.' But where did the erysipelas come from? It happened that the mother was recovering from a severe attack of erysipelas, and although the child had taken the breast throughout the illness, it had suffered no evil in consequence thereof; but when it came back from the doctor's surgery, the child's blood was moculated by the poison held in suspension by the surrounding air, and the child died. We can form no idea how many there are who perish in the same way; and no one is present to trace the cause, or to learn a lesson from the mishap. The girl of whom we are now speaking had been vaccinated, although she was entered among the "unvaccinated."" The protection availed her nothing: how could it do so when she carried about with her an open wound, ready to admit of blood inoculation at the first opportunity ? In concluding this part of the paper, let me say that of the whole of the 74 cases-cases which may be received as representative in their general features- there was not one where the disease could not be accounted for on one of the two principles firstly referred to. The smallpox does not attack the healthy life. It seeks out those who, in one of the two ways, are predisposed for disease; and the oft- repeated statement is true enough, that, in any given year, there is always a certain amount of diseased | life in the country which must fall before any epidemic which; may, in that year, claim more than its fair share of deaths. The grand protective is, therefore, a healthy sanitary life. There is no prophylactic for smallpox in the absence of that. For weariness, the remedy is rest; for hunger, food ; for thirst, water; and against disease conditions, the best. protective is cleanliness-cleanliness of house and person. Epidemics are always the most destructive amongst the poor, because it is amongst that class that the worst sanitary conditions exist. : Is vaccination, then, the best agent we have for stamping-out the smallpox? Surely not. If it were so, the poor would be in an evil case. Vaccination can neither stamp out nor modify the smallpox. No-but it can do the other thing, it can stamp-in the smallpox; it is the most powerful agent we have to secure the continuance of the disease in our midst. smallpox will disappear when we abandon vaccination. The germs of smallpox are implanted in the child, and the unsanitary condition in which it is brought up, develops the disease and diffuses it all around. Another feature is, that other diseases are also disseminated by transmission with the vaccine, so that we have two evils, each a pestilence in itself, where we need not have one. (To be continued.) May 15, 1872.] Radical Vaccination. The following account of a Modern Nobleman '' Coming of Age," is taken from '' Lord Bantam, by the Author of ' Ginax's Baby' " :- Lord Bantam returned home from the university. He might now claim to be somewhat of aman. His title had brought him in contact with men who without it would scarcely have condescended to talk with him. The care taken with his education had produced some fruit in qualifying him to take a prominent position at the Union. His reputation as a fluent speaker had transcended the bounds of the university. He was shortly to come of age. The Harl and Countess had been considering plans for those festivities which were, in accordance with aristocratic custom, to signalise this event. The stewards of the various estates, manors, mines, and properties, had been invited to send suggestions for the proper celebration, in their respective jurisdictions, of the heir's majority ; and the Earl's chamberlain was over head and ears in plans, estimates, and contracts, connected with the approaching fetes. The Countess referred to the Bvolibile one day ina jocose manner to her son, who, having taken earnestly to the study of the French philosophy, paid little attention to family matters. 'You must really throw away your books for awhile," said she, 'and help us in devising how to bring you out with due honour. It's an affair of months, for you know we have thousands of people to provide for." "To provide for thousands of people! What for ?" '' For the fetes on your coming of age. The heir to the wealthiest earldom in England must have no ordinary rejoicings on attaining his majority." "Rejoicings! My dear mother, what is a birthday? And what is the good of rejoicing because I have attained a certain anniversary? You would put me on a par with young Ioley, who is the greatest idiot I know; and they say his people spent ten thousand pounds to celebrate his reaching the indifferent age of twenty-one years. Surely, my father,' he added, with a twinkle of satire, ' won't waste any money on my majority." "Indeed, he will,'' replhed her ladyship, "and more than ten thousand, if it is necessary. Ona matter of that kind no one shall surpass us." "Well, then, my dear mother, let me tell you what to do with the money. Give it away, and spare the folly and,licence and absurdity of such an exhibition in a civilised country."  . $9 " Polly, Albert !-Licence !-Absurdity !-in a civilised country! What do you mean ?"' "I mean that [am ashamed of my position-one Thave done nothing to deserve, and quite inconsistent with social rights. Altogether, I am pained that I should succeed to so much, while others succeed to nothing; and my claim to a title ought not to depend on my being born to it, but should be proved by my work. I am entirely opposed to an aristocracy at all, and only wish I had been born in a garret. Instead of spending money on fetes, we should be ashamed to celebrate our own monstrous selfishness." "Good God!" said the Countess, befallen you? How wildly you are talking! Why, sir, you don't deserve your good fortune. Born in a garret, forsooth! Oh, I see,'' added the poor Countess, covering her eyes as his red hair flashed upon them, but too good a woman and too noble a lady to allude to that to her son, "that horrid vaccination ! ve "what has I knew it would be so! '"' Vaccination, Lady Ffowlsmere! what can that have to do with my opinions ?" "You were vaccinated from that Radical child, and I am sure it has affected you," said the Countess, having recourse to her handkerchief. Bantam heard of his Radical vaccination for the first time, and was highly amused, not to say gratified, to learn that he had some ever? fluid in his body- He strove hard to comfort his mother, while he smiled at her superstition ; at the same time assuring her that he could not conscientiously allow himself to be made the subject of any foolish demonstrations. He preferred to be considered '' Citizen Bantam ;" and to give away a few thousands in charity would please him better than many feasts and rejoicings. I need not say that every word he spoke made the Countess worse. His vaccination had "taken," with a vengeance ! Selby.- Vaccination. -On Monday, Mr. Southwood sold by auction, in the market-place, a quantity of goods, seized under distress warrants, belonging to William Clarkson, who had refused to pay the fines and costs inflicted by the Selby bench of magistrates, in pursuance of the law which enacts compulsory vaccination. The whole of Mr. Clarkson's goods were seized, but they were not all sold, as a portion of them realised the amount needed. But as the (Fuardians have instructed Mr. Shipman to continue, if necessary, proceedings against him, there will soon be nothing left for them to seize, and he will, should he persist in his opposition to the law, before long find himself an inmate of a gaol.-Selby Express, | April 26. 40   [May 15, 1872. the Antt-Gaceinator. pe May 15th, 1872. Inductive philosophy has established the theory that fallacies in practice and belief, respectable by their antiquity, have so great a hold upon the mind that there is a strong indisposition to acknowledge-much more to accept-evidence affecting their reasonableness or truthfulness. Hence, we frequently meet with people who have outhved most of the superstitions of their childhood, cling to one or two notions with all the tenacity of their earliest impressions, and, notwithstanding that they are ashamed to own it, they will not be persuaded out of their belief. Vaccination comes down to us with a character of seventy years: and this fact, on the principle above enunciated, elevates the practice upon a platform from which it is difficult to displace it. The old man remembers the stories of his boyhood with regard to the devastations of smallpox epidemic; and the man in middle life still lingers over the tales he heard when a boy; and the name of Jenner operates like a spell upon the memory of both. No wonder that so many even among the educated classes should hesitate to entertain a doubt, which, if once admitted, produces such an entire revulsion of feeling, to reflect that for so many years we have been the unwitting dupes of amost monstrous delusion. On this subject, however, this is the crucial test to which we must submit, the bitter ordeal through which we must all pass; there is no escape. Postpone the evil day as we may, time will turn the question up, and demand in a louder voice for the verdict of the people. It is not a pleasant thought to consider that the time is not far distant when the name of Jenner shall be blotted out from the scroll of fame, and shall be remembered only as the name of an empiric or an impostor! This is his fate-the fate of all men who choose the wrong path in science- who mistake error for truth, be the disguise ~ ever so close -and who set up a mischieyous practice affecting the health and life of our race, and by legal enactment enforce an obedience which could not be secured by any attempt to convince the judgment. When we reflect upon the horrid ingiuity of the practice of vaccination, we confess that we can scarcely credit the evidence of our own senses. It assumes such stupendous proportions that the mind shrinks from a full view of the consequences which must supervene upon such an unjustifiable interference with the functions of nature. True, the practice has been tolerated hitherto, by surrendering individual judgment upon this matter to the opimion of the faculty; but now that the intelligence of the people has mastered the facts, and now that we distrust the profession, toleration or submission to the law would be a crime. The antecedents of the faculty are by no means encouraging. The members of that body have made mistakes aforetime; and this vaccination blunder is a fitting climax to all their former fallacies, an exposition of which would be more curious than profitable. To acknowledge a fault, tardy though it be, may yet be forgiven; but to persist in a mischievous practice, to reason. against the light of science, to uphold a custom as opposed to the dictates of common sense as it is to the stern logic of facts, is to assume a position in this controversy which may one day involve the practice and the profession in one common ruin. This Compulsory Vaccimation Law is. a grievance that will avenge itself. Still, the more we think of it, the more do we despise the reckless authors of the enactment, and the more we are determined that whatever the consequences may be, our resistance is a war to the knife! There shall be no compromise-no surrender. As to the evidence of Mr. Simon's rank and file, the fallacious statistics of Dr. Seaton, or the still more preposterous figures of Dr. Marson, with his quadrupled cicatrices, we will have none of it: it must come to an end. If the members of the faculty who hold sala bi eT  . 41 the reins of power, who advise the Privy Council, still continue to press the compulsory laws, they will bring upon their own heads the condignest and the swiftest punishment. The people who hate the practice, who fear not to resist the law, may goa step further, and learn to despise the profession by whose artifices and misrepresentations the law is enforced, and the people are oppressed. Would it not be better to relax the law, than to excite the indignation of a people whose traditions show that tyranny in any form cannot prosper on a soil which is sacred to freedom of action, and to the obligations and rights of conscience in matters | | war broke out, the only question that received of opinion ? To. say that the law has as much right to make vaccination comyulsory, as it has to enforce a sanitary order such as that involved in the wise regulation that every house in the town shall be connected with the drainage system in operation, is an argument consistent enough if it proceeded from the lips of a _ lunatic; but it is not a statement we should expect to find in the mouth of a philosopher. If the same law which enforces sanitary regulations insisted that every house in the land should possesss a bath for the purpose of | cleansing the bodies of the people, although that would be an infringement of personal freedom, still we would apologise for it, seeing that no person could raise an objection to the wisdom of the proceeding: that, however, is a very different thing to the enforcement of a medical dogma which on account of its very uncleanness, places it beyond the cunning of science to find a single reasonable excuse in favour of the practice. Let us away with it with all possible haste! Let the nation which first sent out this vaccine dogma in the garb of a ministering angel, be the first to acknowledge its error, and denounce it as the demon of death. Let us tell the nations that the science of the present day refuses to endorse the idea that there can be any possible connection of a prophylactic character between '' the grease' in the horse, the cowpox in the cow, and the smallpox disease in man. Let us say honestly that we have all been deluded, and that the only reparation we can offer is that the nation which homie Sie Jenner's RO quackery 1s the first to declare her rede of the dogma, and her confidence in better and simpler remedies with which to resist the encroachment or the spread of any disease which may reach our shores, or afflict our island homes. The Strike and the Trades Union are not always confined to business and commercial questions. Societies and corporations have effected wondrous reformations in connection with social matters. The Anti-Slavery Society in America worked for many weary years, until the cry of the slave went up to God and called for vengeance. Jor nearly thirty years was this agitation carried on; and when the civil a final solution, in addition to that of the union of the States, was this very one in which the manumission of the slave was accomplished. The blood that was shed during the seven days' carnage at the Battle of the Wilderness, or that which reddened the waters of the Rappahannock, was not shed in vain, but has set its seal for ever upon the curse of slavery. The Society of Friends, noble in their defence of principles which were dear to them, refused to contribute to a church whose doctrines and discipline were alien to their views, and suffered persecution rather than obey the law. 'To this opposition history may hereafter trace the widespread disaffection which may one day culminate in the emancipation of the Church from the control and patronage of the State. Religion, then, free as the mercy which it offers to our race, will rejoice in its freedom, and its wings shall cover the land from '' shore to shore," and from the '' rivers unto the ends of the earth." And'so the Anti-Vaccination League, small in its beginning, and circumscribed in its pretensions, its members called upon to suffer pais, penalties, and imprisonment, because of their resistance to a law which enjoins obedience to a hateful rite, may so far extend its dominion that, by appealing in words of soberness and reason to an enhghtened people, and by the direct impetus which it will acquire in bearing down the prejudices and fallacies of one section of the medical profession, may at length result in freeing the art of medicine from the pernicious influences of State pay and State protection. If it should accomplish all this-(and that it is within the scope of the programme few can doubt)-then will the people be in a fair way of obtaining the desideratum which promises the best health, at the least waste of time, and at the smallest possible cost; but never till then-never ! A2   [May 15, 1872. Smali-Pox in Sunderland. To the Editors of the Anti-Vaccinator. The Borough of Sunderland comprises the townships of Bishopwearmouth, Monkwearmouth, Sunderland, Hendon, Pallion, Mulfield, and Deptford; and it contains 100,000 inhabitants. In some districts-notably in East Sunderland-the streets are narrow; the tenements are overcrowded, badly ventilated, and filthy in the extreme. The inhabitants of these foul dwelling-places appear to cherish a holy regard for dirt, and a supreme contempt for soap and water. The reeking ashpits and middens are carefully kept chokeful of pestilence-breeding refuse, exposed to the 'gentle rain from heaven.' Who, then, will be surprised to hear that smallpox scourged this borough-kiling more than 900 persons- for twelve months? When the epidemic first broke out in 1871, a sapient disciple of Jenner published a pamphlet, entitled '' How te Stamp out the smallpox,"? in which he recommended vaccination (in four places) and re-vaccination, and affirmed that this would be an all-sufficient means for the prevention and stamping-out of the epidemic! Mowever, this Sunderland-bred vaecinator-who must have closed his eyes to the filthy condition of some parts of his native town, fondly dreaming that the want of vaccination, or re-vaccination, had been the true cause of the outbreak-was cleverly answered by Dr. Abrath, in his brochure, ''smallpox Cannot be Stamped-out by Vaccination,' who (not being a native of Sunderland, and being a wise physician) saw the real cause of the severe nature of the outbreak, and drew a vivid and faithful picture of the unsanitary condition ef the borough. The fallacy of relying on vaccination and re-vaccination was fully proved by the great prevalence of the disease among the vaccinated, hundreds of them dying of it. One young gentleman (highly respected) died of smallpox after three days illness, and only six weeks after hé was re-vaccinated. At the Social Science Congress, held at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, in September, 1870, Mr. Rawlinson read a paper, in which, speaking of Sunderland, he attributed the low rate of mortality then ruling in this town to its excellent drainage-upholding it, in fact, as a pattern and an example for other towns. What a bitter commentary on the short-sightedness of too many of our scientific men do we read in the fact, that in the following year (1871) the death-rate of Sunderland was for many weeks from 45 to 50 per thousand, and the highest in the kingdom! Moreover, the Government insisted on the drains of Sunderland being more thoroughly ventilated. From my own experience of the epidemic as it manifested itself in Sunderland, I am able to attest the following facts:-In a family of three children, one vaccinated and two not vaccinated, smallpox broke out, attacking first the vaccinated one (a boy of eight years), who had a mild attack, and soon recovered. It next attacked a girl of three years (unvaccinated), who took it in the confluent form, was blind with it, and died at the ninth or tenth day, the death being due in great measure to the inattention of the parents, who allowed the child to pick off nearly the whole of the pustules. About 14 days subsequently, the third child (15 months old and unvaccinated) was attacked, but he escaped with a very mild attack, having only a dozen small pustules over the entire body, and was never really ill during the course of the disease. Had this infant been vaccinated, how readily would the pro-vaccinators have attributed the extreme mildness of the attack to the '' modifying" power of vaccination! I saw many mild cases- what are termed '*' modified'? - among unvaccinated children and adults. In one family of seven children living in Deptford, only one, a girl of eight years, was vaccinated, and she was the first to take the smallpox, and in a confluent form. She recovered ; and although the other children slept in the same room during the whole period of her illness, only one, an infant of fourteen months, took it subsequently, having but a very mild attack, and running about the room during the whole of the time he was suffering with it. Im another family, the father, a man of about 30 years, vaccinated, had a sharp (distinct) attack, and his child, about six months old, who had been three days yaccinated, took it (in the distinct form) almost simultaneously ; the pustules of the smallpox and of the vaccination fraternising, and running their course together in a way impossible to reconcile with the idea that they are sworn May 15, 1872.}  . 43 foes, and that vaccination is so much stronger than smallpox that it will either '' stamp it out'? or prevent its attack. Both the father and the child recovered after a severe trial. If it were not for the fear that I should expose the parents to the kind attentions of the vaccination officer (for we have a remarkably '' active and intelligent' spécimen of the genus - properly called spy), I would give all their names and addresses in the instances wherein I have seen ''modified" attacks among the unvaccinated. J have two children, both unyacemated, and they have been not only exposed to the infection from the atmosphere, but also by contact with me, for I have visited | more than 500 cases of smallpox during the yast "twelve months. My children have escaped, while vaccinated persons have been attacked and killed in the same street in which T reside. I will now give a statement of 517 cases treated in Sunderland and its vicimity during the period between February 1, 1871, April 20, 1872, by Dr. Potts and myself :- Under Treatment. Died. | Weed oat een Pane ova. Males over 12 yrs.| 133 | 21 | 154) 7 0 7 Females over 121/173 | 30 | 203 | 9 Se hae) Chifater under i727) 72°| "88 "| 60") 9 Zr | 30 POTMES.5 a VOAS.| BOO. | 57 | 25) 24 | 49 = From this table the reader will see that 73:13 per cent. of the whole number of cases were vaceinated. [Five of the cases had been revaccinated shortly before the attack.] Of the vaccinated, 6°61 per cent. died. Of the unvaccinated, 17°27 per cent. died. The vaccinated, as a rule, belonged to the better classes of the community; while nearly all the unvaccinated belonged to the very poorest, and got badly nursed and fed. 'To this, and to the fact that two-thirds of the unvaccinated were under 13 weeks of age, the larger mortality of the latter class is fairly attributable. What becomes of the modifying power of vaccination, when we find that of 378 vaccinated cases no less than 131 were confluent? What becomes of the prophylactic power of vaccination, when we find that 73°13 per cent. of the whole number of cases had been vaccinated? And this ina town where two-thirds only (f so large a proportion) of the inhabitants had been vaccinated. The vaccination officer stated to the Board of Guardians that '' during the past six months of his appointment, the parents of 1,180 children were registered as defaulters"' (vide Sunderland Times, Dec. 16, 1871). I leave the moral of the foregoing statement of facts to the consideration of those who are anxious to discover and proclaim the truth in the matter of vaccination. My experience teaches me that vaccination has no power either to prevent or modify the disease of smallpox. Alfred J. Pearce, Bishopwearmouth, Assistant-Surgeon- April 20, 1872. Sticking To It. Mr. Amos Booth, of Leceister, has contributed lately a series of useful letters to the Lowestoft Observer. In one of his letters, Mr. Booth tells this anecdote :- An Irishman, upon being examined in a horse case | in a court of justice, swore the animal was " fifteen and | feet high; but later on in the examination he said fifteen hands. '' Why,' said the counsel, "a short time ago you swore he was fifteen feet high." '* Did I!" replied Pat, "then bedad, Tl stick to it; the horse was fifteen feet high." This in a great measure accounts for people still advocating vaccination. In years gone by, or earlier in their examination, they said it would prevent smallpox ; and having made the declaration it appears to be a contradiction of terms to have to say now, when questioned by antt-vaccination counsel as to how it is that 90 per cent. of smallpox patients have been previously (according to their evidence) " protected by vaccination." We all know that it " goes against the grain'' to have to retract statements made; but' it is far better to acknowledge a mistake when detected, than to persist in carrying it out until circumstances compel us to bow before the power of truth. My opinion is, that vaccination is rather a breeder than a prevention of smallpox; and evidence every day accumulates to prove the correctness of that opinion; and I challenge any doctor to prove that vaccination is any benefit whatever to anyone but himself. My soul rises in righteous indignation at the stigma that is being placed upon the escutcheon of the boasted 'Land of the Free,' by the handcuffing and imprisoning of any fellow-man for conscience' sake ! and no sacrifice would be too great for me, if I can be but instrumental in bringing about that giorious time when this practice shall be cast to the moles and bats, and the people of the nation shall at least have the opportunity of keeping their blood in its natural state, and free from the contamination of matter which is only evil, and that continually. AA The Anti: Vaccinator and [May .15, 1872. ~ Vaecinators at Variance. The editor of the Selby Times is not justified in saying that "the faculty recommend vaccination to be repeated every seven years." This may apply to asmall minority; but the larger number of professional men are scrupulously silent on the subject. It is true that a circular recommending revaccination, purporting to emanate from the Royal College of Physicians, appeared in the London Times last year. But this anonymous document had not even an official signature. This is very significant and very unusual, and indicates indecision, the usual practice being to append a long array of signatures to a manifesto of this kind. A former declaration, which assures us that the "cowpox is a perfect security from the future infection of the smallpox, and which is therefore opposed to the re-vaccination theory,' was signed by 98 of the most eminent physicians and surgeons of the metropolis. Consequently, the circular in question cannot be received as evidence of the opinions of the profession. If the protective virtue of vaccination becomes finally extinct in seven years, it is a half protection at the end of 385 years, a quarter protection at the end of 5% years, and a sliding scale of gradual declension from the day of the operation. Now, there is literally no meaning whatever in these phrases, " half protection" and ' quarter protection." Vaccination either protects, or it does not protect, against the contagion. A stone thrown at a bird either hits or misses: there isno medium. 'The old theory of vaccinators, that the Creator introduced smallpox into the world with the design of _ admitting cowpox in full substitution and satisfaction for the same, was sufficiently absurd: it hag of late been kept in the background. But the new doctrine of the gradual subsidence of the protective virus, is a mere subterfuge to insure escape from the consequences of the conspicuous decline and fall of vaccination throughout Europe. It requires a peculiar faith to accept vaccination on the sole authority of its great and infallible discoverer, in those who impugn, deny, and condemn his deep-seated feeling that the vaccination which is limited in time is limited in value. We quote from the acknowledged and standard work upon the subject, the " Life of Jenner," by Baron (vol. ii., p. 196) :-'' Lord Ellenborough said he believed in vaccination to a certain extent: it might prevent the disorder for eight or nine years."' '' This observation (says Jenner's biographer) was incorrect and injurious. I have seldom seen Jenner more disturbed than he was by this occurrence. It unhappily accorded with popular prejudices, and was calculated to do unspeakable mischief. It unsettled the confidence of numbers of anxious parents, and | attempted to deprive vaccination of half its virtues. All the evidence was in opposition to this opinion. The declaration of the Chief Justice accorded too much with popular prejudice; and the Antivaccinators were not a little proud of the cooperation of his lordship."' It will thus be seen that the advocates of repeated vaccination are in full revolt against their lord and master on this subject. Vaccina is divided against herself-an omen of approaching fall. She still "keeps the word of promise to the ear,"' though she "breaks it to the hope;"' for even when death ensues, the promise is kept "'to the ear;'"' and we are eravely informed that the mischance has happened either a few days too soon, or a few days too late, to be fairly ascribed to the vaccinating process! A drop of "pure lymph" contains the quintessence of the combined diseases of all the bodies through which it has passed by arm-to-arm vaccination -that truly democratic and levelling process of equality and fraternity in united national suffering. We find it difficult to rejoice even when our direst opponents are cutting themselves after their manner, and inflicting this singular and half-believed safeguard on themselves, their wives, and their little ones, and the servant that is within their house. The search throughout Europe for pure and renovating lymph, reminds us of the search in ancient Egypt for the successor of Apis, with this difference-the Egyptian cow was to be without spot; and we have long been looking-and till now, alas! in vain-for a spotted cow! Vaccination Prosecutions. Sunderland. Mr. Alfred J. Pearce, (assistant surgeon), Mr. Jonathan Priestly (chemist), and Mr. Robt. Paxton (grocer), have been fined 10s. each and costs, for refusing to comply with the magistrates' order to have their children vaccinated. Arrangements are being made for holding a public meeting. Manchester. Mr. Charles Bruton was summoned for the third time for refusing to vaccinate his child. Mr. Headlam asked the defendant what he had got to say ?P-Defendant: I beg to submit to you that I am summoned here for conscience' sake, because I will not allow my child to have a lot of filth put in his biood-falsely called lymph, which is nothing but corruption and death.-_Mr. Headlam: I must fine you 20/-Defendant: I protest against it in the name of the Almighty.-Mr. Bruton paid the fine. He has since sent a printed protest to the Guardians, accusing them of robbing and persecuting him for refusing to bow down and worship their filthy god, Lymph. Mr. Bruton says :-'"' My family of seven children are a standing rebuke to your foolishness ; they are all blest with good health. Shall I renounce truth, and embrace a lie to please you? No-I will not!" May 15, 1872.} Public' Health Journal. 45 Letter to Mr. Stansfeld, M.P. Mr. B. Thorpe, hon. sec. of the Middicton League, sent the annexed letter to the President of the Local Government Board :-- Sir,-May I beg you to accept and ponder over the accompanying letter-[Professor Newman's, published in the 4. V. for Nov. 18]-which, along with others of a similar character, are being distributed in tens of thousands throughout the country? It is quite evident from the manner in which you are hounding on boards of guardians throughout the country, to prosecute (and even persecute) conscientious objectors to vaccination, as also from the false and misleading statements emanating from your office in reply to private communications, that you are still labouring under one of the greatest delusions that ever existed, in thinking that vaccination ever did, or ever can, prevent disease. As a private gentleman, your views on this matter, erroneous though they be, would have attracted but little notice. When, however, we remember the responsibility of your position, and contrast it with the ignorance which you manifest in a matter over which your office gives you such ~ control, we feel astonished that ever you should have taken the responsibility of such position. We have no doubt but you have been thus guided by interested professional gentlemen, whom you may regard as the highest authorities in such matters: still, this does not alter the fact that we have the blind leading the blind ; and if (more by good fortune than good management) you have avoided falling into the ditch together, you have nevertheless been the means of forcing others in, some of whom have been killed, while others have been ruined for life. It is very much to be regretted that in looking over the evidence before the late Vaccination Committee- (which you say has settled the whole question, thus relieving the country of further discussion)-we find the evidence so much in direct opposition to the recommendations of that committee; forit is proved most conclusively, even from the evidence of pro-vaccinators themselves, and confirmed by the Registrar-General's returns, that the vaccinated are twice as liable to take smallpox, to say nothing of increasing other diseases, as the unvaccinated. This argument is in itself sufficient to upset the whole practice, and has never yet been challenged. Further, it is proved beyond dispute, by Mr. Hutchinson and Dr. Bakewell, both also pro-vaccinators, that syphilis and leprosy are spread by this operation. Another deeply-humiliating revelation (at least for the doctor) - is also made in the forced admission, that at this day, after seventy years of so-called enlightened professional experience, medical men are utterly unable to x any standard whereby to discriminate between what they call pure and impure matter :-and no wonder, seeing that it is all corrupt together. We should, therefore, as soon think of extracting honey from a dung heap, as dream of sectiring purity from a corruptible wound of any kind. 'True, it has its degrees of comparison; but instead of describing it as good, better, and best, we are obliged to pronounce the verdict of bad, worse, and worst; for surely if they had been able to secure pure corruption, Her Majesty the Queen, and the Prince of Wales, would have had the choicest cut. But, independent altogether of the evidence before that committee, and the still further evidence of the severe injuries received by Her Majesty and the Prince from re-vaccination, cases which have come under my own notice (fifty of which I could give, if required), have in themselves been quite sufficient to convince me of the danger and uselessness of the practice: and i feel confident that if you could only see the fruits which I have seen (which are by no means exceptional), and hear the mournings and lamentations from bereaved and injured parents, as I have, unless you are entirely blinded by your surroundings to the evidence of your own senses, you would share my convictions. I assure you, that asa parent "I should consider myself wicked and guilty of a crime"' against a higher tribunal than the so-called Local Government Board over which you preside, if I neglected to shield my children from this most dangerous and filthy operation. Indeed, I would rather follow them one by one to their graves, than again run the risk of having diseases engrafted which might force them, and perhaps future generations also, to drag out a miserable existence. IL therefore beg you to allow the scales to fall from your eyes, and instead of looking to dead, decaying and stinking matter (which nature has already rejected, being itself the product of disease) as a means of preserving health and beauty, you will begin to look for a more orderly course of life,and better sanitary regulations, as the only effectual means of attaining this much- desired end. See to these things, and then the | blessing of thousands who are now trembling under fear of the law will rest upon you. But if you are still deterrnined to carry on your persecutions (at least so long as you are in office), we do hope you will not further mock us by claiming to do such deeds in accordance with the wishes of the bulk of the people of this country, but rather come forward in your true character as representative of the interests of the medical profession, and then we shall soon find your candle removed out of its place, in order to make room for common sense, guarded by the experience of the past, and the facts of the present, which will be a true reflex of the requirements and desires of the people whose suffrages you secured, but whom you falsely represented.-I am, sir, yours, &c. Benjn. Thorpe. Middleton, Dec, 30, 1871.   [May 15, 1872. a as re = Vaccination Fallacies. It is a popular fallacy that Dr. Jenner was the discoverer of vaccination. True, he received £30,000 from the national exchequer on this supposition, and the fact recalls the saying that ''a gift blindeth theeyes." Yet Jenner's right to be called the discoverer was questioned at the time in the House of Commons. Benjamin Jesty was the man who must be called the first English vaccinator. On his tomb at Worth, in Dorsetshire, there is this inscription :-'' Sacred to the memory of Benjamin Jesty, aged 79 years. He was an upright honest man, particularly noted for having been the first person known that introduced cowpox by inoculation, and who, from his great strength of mind, made the experiment from the cow upon his wife and two sons, in the year 1774." Now, Jenner did not begin his cowpox and horse-grease experiments till 1796, twenty-two years later. He lived in Gloucestershire at the time, a county better known for its dairies than for an enlightened peasantry. Overhearing a milkmaid say that she was safe from smallpox, because she bad taken the cowpox, he conceived the idea of imparting this pest to the people as a "' healing disease,' as Professor Huxley irrationally terms vaccination. cowpox amongst the cattle was common in those days, the poor beasts being kept in a filthy state and without proper ventilation, especially during the winter. The milkmaid was right in her conjecture so far as this-that the impurity of her blood haying been discharged by the eruption, she was not liable to its repetition until her blood again became impure. She took the cowpox naturally, and it was therefore a curative process. It is a fallacy to suppose that smallpox is a deadly and unmitigated evil. You will find that those who have smallpox naturally, never die of consumption; whereas this fearful complaint has increased most alarmingly since the introduction of vaccination; and no wonder, because the '' grease" used by Jenner was consumptive matter. Moreover, there is nothing more dangerous than to check the operations of nature by preventing the discharge of impure matter through the skin, and thus directing its deadly effects upon the sensitive mucus membrane and vital organs. Jenner states distinctly in his book (which is illustrated with sickening pictures of the vaccine pustules), that the filthy matter from the greasy heel of the dying horse was the true source of his yaccinating virus, Another Jennerian fallacy is the statement that a person so inoculated is safe for life from small - pox. So said Jenner. Now the outcry is for revaccination . Jenner lived to see his error, but he failed to make atonement. The £36,000 was therefore awarded under false pretences. Jéenner's first experiments were significant of the national holocaust which was to follow the endowment of his dogma. He vaccinated his eldest son with swine-pox, for he did not confine his murderous experiments to matter from sickly horses and cows; and thisson died at the age of 21, from consumption. The first youth he cut and poisoned also died of consumption : his name was Phipps. Vaccinators of to-day tell us that another of Jenner's fallacies was the supposition that one scratch or stab of the poisoned laneet was sufficient; so they cut in more places, and more frequently, when the impotence of the operation became manifest. The orthodox number of punctures now is four, and less than that number are said to be no protection. And yet the vaccinated have smallpox-yes, and die of it. Why do they not so increase the number of poison-holes as to make assurance doubly sure? Another fallacy is the supposition that smallpox increases the mortahty. <A certain school of vaccinating doctors try to frighten the people into vaccination, by magnifying the evils and dangers of smallpox. In ordinary years there are more deaths from scalds and burns than from smallpox; and even when smallpox is epidemic the death-rate is not augmented, because fewer deaths occur from other diseases. When thereis most vaccination and re-vaccination then the blood is most corrupted, which is really sowing smallpox:*no wonder, therefore, that the mania for vaccination and re-vaccination last year increased very greatly the fatal cases of smallpox. A stock argument of the vaccinators is the decrease of smallpox during the presentcentury. It is a fallacy to attribute this to vaccination. If almost every person formerly was '' marked," we must blame the doctors, who did their best to spread smallpox by means of '' inoculation," and treated the disease as though they intended to kill or scar their patients. Sanitary measures and improved habits of life have done much to account for this diminution of smallpox ; and as the tendency of epidemic disease is naturally to exhaust itself, to burn out, as it were, for want of fuel, no doubt smallpox would have all but disappeared had it not been fostered by vaccination. Other Jennerian fallacies (and their name is legion) we must reserve for future numbers of the Anti-Vaccinator, May 15, 1872:]  . 47 Protest Against the Compulsory Vaccination Laws. The Anti-vaccinators of England protest against the Compulsory Vaccination Laws- 1. Because they are tyrannical and unconstitutional, depriving parents of their sacred and legitimate rights of control and protection over their offspring. 2. Because they emanate from a narrow medical school, which, in the face of the dissent of a considerable body of enlightened and experienced medical men, and of a large portion of the intelligence of the community, has prevailed on Parliament to. enforce its unnatural and irrational nostrum for smallpox upon the nation at large. 3. Because vaccination is an outrage upon all the known laws of health and physiology, inasmuch as it not only prescribes the infusion of corrupt and venomous matter-the product of disease-into a healthy organism (even the so-called " pure lymph" from the cow being simply animal corruption), but also effects this by a burglarious assault and entrance through the protecting tissues: whereas, all whole- some nutriment and medicaments have their prescribed channels of entrance by absorption through the skin, lungs, or digestive organs, 4. Because vaccination is no defence against smallpox , as is proved-first, by the statistics which show that more than three-fourths of the patients recently admitted to certain smallpox hospitals have been "successfully"? vaccinated; and secondly, by the admission that unless the infused virus be speedily and vigorously expelled by the invaded organism, vaccination is not considered successful: that is, the alleged prophylactic when harboured in the system is avowedly powerless. Moreover, it has been shown on high authority, that cowpox and smallpox can run, and have run, their course simultaneously in the same patient. 5. Because vaccination has been indisputably proved to be a means of conveying foul and loathsome disease, far more to be dreaded than smallpox itself; and because even cases of death, as the direct consequence of vaccination, are of no uncommon occurrence. 6. Because it is cruelly unjust even to fine ever so lightly-much more to fine repeatedly and imprison-parents, for refusing to subject their children to the deadly risks of vaccination, which has actually been done in several cases, even when the recusant parent had previously lost one child-or more than one-from the direct effects of this unclean and unnatural practice. 7. Because the only efficient prophylactic against disease-whether smallpox, cholera, fever, &c.-is to be found in enlightened and faithful compliance with the laws of life and health, which these. compulsory vaccination laws-by teaching people to trust In vaccination, and leading them to believe that they may nourish with impunity the real causes of smallpox-set utteriy and daringly at defiance. 8. Because smallpox is alleged by many physicians to be very tractable under judicious treatment. The incompetence of ordinary doctors to cure a contingent disease, is no adequate reason for compelling parents to inflict a certain disease on their children. Persecution and Prasentation at Middleton. 'We do not know any town in England where there is a stronger and more general antipathy to vaccination, than prevails in Middleton, near Manchester. The injuries by vaccination amongst its infant population have roused the people to withstand the compulsory law, and there have, in consequence, been numerous prosecutions. Many public meetings have been held, and petitions sent to Parliament. Mr. B. Thorpe, hon. sec. of the Middleton League, writes:-'' We have got about 500 signatures during the last fortnight, in favour of entire repeal of the Vaccination Acts, and hope by the end of next week to have got a thousand. I have not the least doubt that if we had time to go from house to house, we should be able to get 95 persons out of every 100 to sign." On Wednesday, April 8, 1872, the household goods of Mr. Thomas Okell were sold by auction in Middleton market-place, under a distress warrant, issued by the magistrates, for non- vaccination. After the sale, a public meeting was held, presided over by Mr. Thomas Brooks, and a petition was adopted-the seconder of it being the auctioneer- setting forth the injustice of this cruel treatment of an upright and peaceable citizen. An address has since been presented to Mr. and Mrs. Okell, "in token of respect for their fidelity to God and conscience, in resisting the tyrannical and unconstitutional vaccination laws, which violate parental duty and the principles of civil and religious liberty." The address further protested against vaccination as 'the greatest swindle of the 19th century.' Goods to the value of those sold were also presented to' Mr. and Mrs. Okell, by the members and friends of the League. Kings Lynn.-The vaccination officers of this borough have informed the Guardians that if their pay is not increased they will resign. Significant is the alleged cause of this threatened strike-namely, that some of the Guardians are so persistently opposed to vaccination as to render the duties of the officers more onerous than they would otherwise be. Mr. B. 1. Birch, vice-chairman of the Board, is the author of the pamphlet entitled '' Vaccination : its Nature and Iffects," and the letter, " A Servant Girl Ruined by Vaccination." See the Anti- Vaceinator for June 3 and August 19, 1871. The Anti-Vaccinator. [May 15, 1872. Richard Butler Gibbs. HEARTSEASE. [The following poem, from the pen of Dr. J. J. Garth Wilkinson, was sent to Mr. R. B. Gibbs, hon. sec. of the Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League, during his last illness, when his heart was torn and his mind distracted by the painful descriptions he daily received from parents whose children were suffering cruelly from vaccination, or who had been murdered by the tyrants in power. Mr. Gibbs found much comfort in reading these verses, and gave thanks for them, imploring blessings on the writer. We believe other sorrowing ones will be grateful for the spirit of healing which dictated and permeates this poem. } The way was dark, we floundered as we went ; the lane was long, our strength was almost spent : an Angel came along, with heavy load- so it appeared-upon the miry road. He placed the load upon the heavy earth ; he said it was the region of his birth. He took it once again-that load was wings : his voice grew lighter; he discoursed of things beyond the visible diurnal sphere ; of little children playing by a mere, whose waters bright reflected heavens unknown: he said his mission now ran on alone. He disappeared. A crowd of mothers next came bending by: on cach bent back a text portraying patience with the ills of earth, for patience is the-spirit's needful girth. They had lost children, but their brows were turned to where on high a glorious mirror burned ; and there portrayed they saw triumphant Good, the Saviour form, in midmost Heaven Who stood. Their hands were lifted to the Cross above, their eyes were filled with more than mother's love ; the babes were o'er them- each had her own child: the air, the sea, the very winds were mild. They said that when the tyrant doom down fell, and homes were desolate, and earth seemed hell, and cruel power trod proudly o'er their hearts,- the Blessed One peculiar good imparts. For infancy when crushed, and love when slain, rise with ten lives, and live in Heaven again, and mate the home with Heaven, and give the power of life and love to woman's coming hour. So murder plants the murderer for a soil in which the victim grows apart from toil ; and sure regeneration comes at last, Heaven's only vengeance for the dreadful past. The editor of the Merthyr Times, after relating the fearful story of isolated cases of smallpox in the Rhondda valley, remarks:- The blame should rest, not upon the neighbours who deserted them in their dire necessity and left them without a single friendly hand to aid them, but upon those who taught them to do so. But why is it that such an outcry is raised by the medical fraternity about smallpox, more than about consumption, bronchitis, and many other diseases which destroy by far a much larger number of victims than smallpox? Simply because it is the goose that lays the golden eggs. . When they thoroughly frighten the people respecting the fearfully infectious and death-dealing character of smallpox, they find it easier to get them to submit to the beastly and abominable practice of vaccination. They know, as well as we do, that the vaccinated are twice as liable to smallpox as the unvaccinated, and that vaccination is the means of poisoning previously healthy blood, and introducing into the system hereditary, filthy, and loathsome diseases, and thus it provides plenty of occupation with liberal remuneration for the medical profession. The Times of April 6th contained a_ leading article on the death-rate from smallpox. It is significant as indicating the growing change of opinion on the subject of vaccination. The writer remarks, that-'smallpox, whatever it may have been originally, is now only an ordinary disorder, though liable to periodical extensions. At this point, too, we are confronted with a fact bearing strangely upon the whole question. _smallpox is one of half-a-dozen complaints which alternately rise or subside after such a fashion that while the destructive agency may be varied, the result on the public health remains practically the same. Last year, for example (to quote the Registrar-General's own words) in the 17 largest English towns 'the greatly-increased fatality from smallpox was nearly balanced by a decline in the deaths from other diseases ;) and our own experience in this respect is almost uniform. All we can say is-that as an antidote to the plague has been discovered in good sanitary conditions of living, so we may hope, by a steady improvement of these conditions, to counteract or neutralise with equal success epidemics of more recent though not more intelligible origin." The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, Children Answers to Correspondents .....e.. ceeeoeen Phe > Peculiar People'' and The Act of Uniformity. The '' Peculiar People" have been hardly dealt with by the law in being forced to call in medical men to themselves and their children : as well might vegetarians be forced to deal with a butcher, or Dissenters be fined for not going to church. The cunning of medical despotism is like ecclesiastical cunning, and. has to be fought down by an extension of the same efforts which have to some extent freed us from the | gripe of inquisitions and established churches. The '' Pecuhar People" are following Christ with as much of the letter and the spirit as they have got, and daily praying for more: the State -the Gladstone - Sloggett - Simon- Paternal Government-is chasing them out of their faith and their religion. For why? In face of the death-rate from smallpox as treated by orthodox physic, there is no presumable probability that physic would have saved the lives of their children. It professes to lose nearly all bad cases, and complacently professes it. Why should those whose religion is against it call it in ? If not for safety, for custom, respectability, and the doctor's sake. But that is putting the cart before the horse. Well, then, in order that you may know that you have done everything secundum artem, and that you have incurred '*no responsibility." But the answer here is, that the '' Peculiar People" believe that Old Medicine is not everything, but worse than nothing; and by calling it in they incur the grievous responsibility of sin, in soothing their love of ease with that bad nothing. The homeceopaths, numbering hundreds in London alone, are believed by the orthodox to give nothing in pretending to use homeopathic medicines; yet the '' peculiar people" who are their patients, are not violated by Government, and forced to send for nasty medicine men. This is inconsistent and cowardly. Old Physic itself has one sick spot in it in the expectant school-the watchirf school-those 50 who watch and do not pray. This school sits at the bedside, and regulates the bedclothes, and picks the bedclothes (if need be) for the patient. These are the '' Professional Peculiar People," minus all faith and religion. Yet the State leaves them alone, because-they take fees in the regular way, and thus are true to the orthodox core. This is inconsistent. But then, without an orthodox doctor, who is there to sign a certificate of death? The person may have been poisoned. May he not have been poisoned by Old Physic? Is not public opinion concentrated upon every death? Cannot fathers, mothers, and neighbours attest the death? In cage of doubt, cannot an inquest be held, and a post-mortem be had-just as now ? The whole skeleton of the matter is so bare, and so grinning in its bones, that it is obvious that not public health, but medical despotism, is the thing which is infringed by the '" Peculiar People," and that the Freeman has been paying by jail for treading on the toes of the Feeman. It is for this alone that the '' Peculiar People" are to be reduced to order and materialism by the vigilant myrmidons of uniformity. deg GV a Trial of the '' Peculiar People." At the Central Criminal Court, London, George Hurry and his wife Cecilia were charged with causing the death of two of their children, by refusing to provide medical aid. The defendants belong to the religious body called the "' Peculiar People,' who have faith in prayer, and laying on of hands, but ignore doctorsand vaccination. The trial was watched with great interest; and copious reports were published by the daily and weekly newspapers. -The Grand Jury made a " presentment'' on the case, designating this Biblical doctrine as "' dangerous to the community at large, and calling for legislative interference." Mr. Baker, in his defence, said the prosecution was a disgrace to the age in which we live. The learned counsel areued that the Peculiar People were justified by official statistics in discrediting the alleged good effects of vaccination tion; and he maintained that in the best vacci- nated populations, both at home and abroad, the mortality was invariably the largest. Could the sect, he asked, be blamed for trusting less to vaccination than to the Lord? and were the public not far more a peculiar people to be resting on a broken recd, and giving up the right tothink? It might be the destiny of the defendant's sect to restore us to   [June 1, 1872. our pristine-common sense, and to break through the - bonds of medicine, which said-* Thus far shalt thou go, and no farther.' The use of mercury and inoculation, both much regarded in their time, had gone long ago into the limbo of perdition; and so might vaccination, if its effects were properly known. It had, he argued, proved a notorious failure- perhaps preventing one disease by substituting a more loathsome one: and, in the face of all the blunders connected with it, we had no right to be dragooned by the medical profession. There were many and varied schools of medicine, and he asked which of them the law would select for the adoption of the Peculiar People? The foundation of the present charge was the fear of contagion; but the Peculiar People, by attending to sanitary regulations, utterly disregarded it.. When to the other vices of this country a slavish fear of contagion was added, the glory of England would truly have departed. -The jury found that the defendants had been '"'ouilty of neglecting to procure medical advice.''- Mr. Baker said this was no offence in law.-The Judge, on account of the "innocent and exemplary character" of the accused, directed their discharge. Mr. John Vine, one of the Peculiar People, who was discharged from the Arsenal at the instigation of the parish authorities, writes :- So far from carrying about infection by myself, or any of our people, every care is taken to prevent the spread of disease, by isolation and precautions similar to those in general use. Persons who do not belong to the Peculiar People have suffered far more extensively from smallpox than our people. Permit me to correct another error. Mr. Hurry's third child also died, but not under the control of the parents. Four weeks previous to its death, the child was removed from the parents, by their consent, to a friend's (not one of the Peculiar People's) house ; three weeks later the child was vaccinated ;° it then became ill; the doctor was called ; he prescribed medicines, which the child took, and a week later the child died of smallpox. Neither vaccination, nor medicines, nor the doctor, could save it. The child was perfectly healthy till it was vaccinated. Vaccination developed the very | disease it was supposed to prevent. The draught of the doctor was shortly followed by death. _ The Peculiar People are called fanatics for trusting in God, for believing in and acting upon Scriptural authority, and they are rebuked for distrusting doctors and medicines. But neither vaccination nor medicines are proved efficacious. Last spring our most gracious Queen and the Prince of Wales were vaccinated. Both became ill; The Queen suffered greatly; the Prince's life was despaired of. He had the best medical advice; the most eminent doctors attended him. Every means that medical skill could suggest was used; all that boundless wealth could supply was provided; yet the Prince's life ebbed down to the very verge June 1, 1872.] of death! When all earthly hope was gone-when the doctors pronounced themselves powerless-then, a8 the only resort, the nation turned to prayer, and by the Lord's power the Prince's life was saved. John Vine. PS. Since my discharge I have found, by the Lord's grace, another and a rather better situation. Park-place, Plumstead, May 4. ° Mr. Alexander Wheeler, of Darlington, sent a letter to the Manchester Examiner, and which was published under the title of "' Peculiar People versus Doctors,"' with the view of showing that it is no crime to refuse medical aid, and that when obtained it is of no value. Mr. Wheeler quoted the admissions by the "heads of the profession," that they are powerless to control smallpox. Several other letters appeared on both sides of the vaccination question. In a second letter, Mr. Wheeler gives further proofs that '' we are terribly scourged with a medical tyranny; and asserts that "medical men are degrading their noble calling by appealing to pains and penalties to enforce obedience to their waning rule." Medical Note. By De Garth will beineog: Last Sunday (May 12) I lost a little patient, Edith Clare Patterson, aged six months, of whooping- cough. She was twice vaccinated~-successfully at three months old. Always weakly, she seemed no worse, but her parents said, rather better, after the vaccination. The whooping-cough was of the adynamic kind: convulsion throughout the frame rather the character of the disease than cough. She was so blue during the "inward fits,' as almost to suggest blue heart-disease. 'This weak child had a delicate mother. What had vaccination to do with the case? In the first six months of its life vaccination gave it, by shock, a disease it need not have had. 'The disease could not but take away some of its life. And (lst) predispose it to any current infantile maladies, such as whooping-cough --viz.. by weakening its powers of resistance: and (2nd) weaken it for surviving the whooping- cough when it came. These positions seem to be incontestable deductions from vital economics. The case is valuable to me as illustrating the causes of the present great death-rate from whooping- cough. The parents, I may add, are distinctly averse to vaccination, but coerced. 7  . 51 Violation of National Law. Professor F.W. Newman, in his Liverpool address on 'The Defence of Personal Rights," exposes some of the recent violations of national law and individual liberty effected by an irresponsible medical conclave :- The conduct of English legislation is deplorable- disastrous to the nation and disgraceful to our high pretensions. I have discerned it for twenty years as a fact. Of all things human and secular, National Law is the most sacred. If the laws of a nation be made unjust and foul, what reason will remain for love of country? What else will the people become but unjust and foul? When legislation has been concocted by medical officers who have fixed places, any Government which is too weak to resist the pressure of the permanent office- holders can pass through Parliament anything, provided that those only are affected by the legislation who have no influence over Parliamentary elections-thatis, most pecuharly, poor women, That it should be possible to pass penal law at all with a miserable fraction of the legislature (no one knows how many) isin itself utterly monstrous. 'To undertake so grave a duty with a wearied brain, cannot be approved in any case; but te vote away, in a thin house, all the constitutional safeguards against the unjust and precipitate action of the Executive, and that while enacting unheard-of inflictions on the bodies of women, might have seemed a malversation-a treason impossible in England. What is the House for, if not to save us from the despotism of the Executive? But the terrible thing is, that we see only the beginning of this infamous system of voting away the national liberties. A certain medical school has got the ear: of Ministers, and exercises influence over Parliament. M.P.'s calmly profess to follow the advice of experts in all medical subjects. These experts do not even fairly represent the whole medical body. Again and again their favourite projects have been outvoted in fair and open discussion. But this school hasits own fanaticism, and that is all in the direction of multiplying places and salaries for themselves. No one can say what new bill medical ambition is concocting. Therefore, the call is strong and urgent on all with whom domestic purity, the rights of the poor, and the sacredness of the constitution, are inexpressibly more precious than party interests, to bring their funds in aid of those who have so nobly thrown themselves into the van of battle. England will hardly pass successfully through this most dangerous crisis, In which our nominal rulers have set over our necks the reckless despotism of a medical school, unless the religious of all sects cordially unite with the masses of the poorer, on whom the tyrannical pressure falls first and | heaviest. Public Health Bluebook. To the Editors of the Anti-Vaccinator. Gentlemen,-Seeing in the first number of the new series of     that the Hditors have deemed it wise to extend the title of the paper, and to include within its scope the discussion of all measures which affect the public health, I ask permission to call attention to some such measures, '"'and other cognate questions which are now absorbing the attention of great numbers of the thinking population." I have for some years past found matter for thought in the Annual Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council; and although the Report for 1870 is less bulky and less costly than (probably) any one that has preceded it, it is not the less interesting. I do not pretend, however, to be a judge in these matters beyond the question of bulk and price. The Report for 1870 (Thirteenth) consists of 69 pages, and the cost 4$d., while the Eleventh Report (1868) cost 10/-, and extended to 216 pages, exclusive of coloured plates and diagrams; Plate vi. being described in page 216 as representing '' crystals of cholophzeine, or bitirubine."-(See Eighth Report of the Medical Officer, 1868.) This Eighth Report extending to 474 pages, at the moderate price of 3/-, in consideration of the absence of coloured plates. Strictly speaking, these reports on public health are due in the month of Aprilin each year, but somehow or other they are not issued till July or August ; the consequence of which delay is, that in a session like the present, Parliament will have dealt with a Public Health Bill without the advantages of the latest Report on the Public Health. Had the report of last year attained its normal dimensions; had it acted, as a learned Professor at Oxford predicted with regard to medicine, ''in advance of science,'-the loss might not have been deemed irreparable; but, unfortunately, the pathological work carried on by Dr. Saunderson and Dr. Thudicum, respectively, cannot be published in fragments, and the result of Dr. Thudicum's investigations of 1870 are not submitted till they can be   _ [June 1, 1872. extended "by the year's work of 1871. what anxiety then must the thinking population look forward to the Bluebook, Public Health, 1871! The results of these investigations ;. the experiences of the author, in conjunction with the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, at the hospital at Bingen during the Franco-Prussian war; the precautions against infection, practical and practicable, in active service; the success of the hospital and its cost; in addition to the interest evoked by ''an epidemic of smallpox at home greatly more severe than any in the last 80 years"; the Select Committee of the House of Commons taking evidence as to the value of various objections against compulsory vaccination; and the Reports of the Royal Sanitary Commission ;-all these things, and more, the thinking population have a right to expect: but they have no right to expect this till Parliament 1s '' home for the holidays,"' and Mr. Stansfeld has retired to some quiet bourne where sanitary questions cease from troubling, and Public Health Bills are at rest. But, as Tom Hood remarked, a cock pheasant in hand is worth two cock sparrows in the bush; let us therefore turn to the Thirteenth Report, 1870, and to that part of the volume which refers to awards of money to meritorious public vaccinators, out of money voted by Parliament for that purpose. We are desired by an N.B. to remark that in some cases the union or parish not having its arrangements in conformity with the Act of 1867, 16 is impossible to entertain, with a view to awards, any question of the merits of individual vaccinators. We have thus a feeling of enmity sown between the would-be meritorious public vaccinator and the Guardians of the dilatory or recusant union, which deprives him of this probable addition to his moderate stipend, the privation being specially felt in the nursery and school-room at Christmas time. We cast our eye down the alphabetical column, and find---'' Birmingham, 1 vaccinator ; 1 first-class award; total sum awarded, £145. 10s., by Inspector Dr. Seaton. It is the highest award on the list, and by the highest authority in matters compulso- vaccinal. Here, then, the thinking population have a right to look for protection from a preventible disease; for no properly vaccinated country, says Dr. Simon, can contract smallpox. What, then, does the thinking population think when it reads in the Medical Times and Gazette of March 16, 1872- '* Birmingham-42 cases of smallpox Lean of these 40 were rapemiates, 1 unvaccinated, not named" ? With . - June 1, 1872.]  . a But I have already forfeited my claim to be one of the thinking population, by the thoughtless way in which I have trespassed on your time. It is for you say whether you think my remarks are entitled to any-and if so, how much-space in your new series of   Public Health Jowrnal.- I am, Gentlemen, your obedient servant, May 17, 1972. J. Clarke Jervoise. Our leading article, which was in type before the receipt of the above letter, will show that, like Sir J. Clarke Jervoise, occasionally we find "matter for thought" in the Report of the Medical Officer to the Privy Council. It is a misfortune, not only to Parliament, but to the country, that the Reports both of the Medical Officer and the Registrar- General should be so long delayed in their publication ; the former, due in April, will be issued perhaps in August; and the latter will appear about the same time, occupying nearly eight'months in its compilation. In May of last year, we inquired of Dr. Farr if the Registrar's Report could not be issued sooner? He said it could not. Our own opinion is that it might; and the importance of an earlier knowledge of the facts and information contained therein, would justify any additional expenditure by the Department. An old habit is bad to shake off. The award of £145. 10s. (above mentioned) to the vaccinator, is indeed a gift that " blindeth the wise." There is no dogma or practice, however absurd, that could not be enforced where such means are at the disposal of officials who carry out the law. The gold is the best argument in the service-in fact, almost the only one left; and this new device of paying for the work a second time, in the shape of "awards," is a keen stroke of policy; it is the surest way of perpetuating this traffic in disease and death, and of rendering our work all the more difficult.-d. A.V. Authorship of the ' Protest." In our last Number we republished from the Anti-Vaccinator of June, 1870, the '* Protest against the Compulsory Vaccination Laws," and omitted to state that it was written by the Rey. W. Hume-Rothery. Clause 8 is an addition, made at the suggestion of Professor F. W. Newman. The original '* Protest'' received numerous signatures from influential persons. We think it would be serviceable if reprinted as a Tract for general circulation, the last clause being omitted, as Mr. Hume-Rothery wishes the '' Protest"' to:remain asit was drawn and signed. Imprisonment of Mr. Matts. [A letter to the Rev. Wm. Hume-Rothery, narrating another case of persecution and imprisonment for conscience' sake, at Leicester. | 13, Stoughton-street, Leicester, May 9, 1872. Dear Sir,-Since hearing your lecture on Friday evening last, May 3rd, I thought I would send you an account of the persecution I have suffered under the tyrannical Compulsory Vaccination Acts. On the 22nd day of June, 1870, I received the first notice to have an infant boy vaccinated (who afterwards died on the 28th of July, the same year, aged eight months) ; but, being opposed to vaccination more than 20 years ago, of course I refused to allow the operation to be performed; and I am glad to say that out of a family.of nine children, not one of them has been vaccinated. I continued to receive notices after the death of the above infant, for three children aged respectively 12, 9, and 7, and was at length summoned several times before the magistrates, and on the 27th of February, 1871, was committed to prison for 30 days, as I refused to pay the fine imposed, which was £3. The treatment I _ received was disgraceful for an honest, conscientious - man. After i had been in about an hour, the warder came with the barber to take off my beard and whiskers, which were very profuse. I violently protested against this indignity, and asked if I was to be treated as acommon felon. The answer was- willyou paythen? I said no-I have done nothing, and will pay nothing; and still resisted, and demanded to see the governor. They went away ; and in the course of three quarters of an hour the head warder came, instead of the governor, and said the governor refused to see me. Finding myself no longer a free Englishman, and completely under their clutches, I submitted to the abominable degradation. My first meal was a piece of bread and a few potatoes boiled with their coats on. My diet during the whole of the time was, I suppose, the ordinary prison diet. Excellent, I think for thieves and robbers, but not fit for honest men. The first week I was allowed to wear my own clothes, and had my cell changed three times-I presume, for aggravation. On the seventh day, I was bathed, and had my own clothes taken away, and was then honoured with a gaol suit, the trousers of which were ornamented with 25 patches, the whole suit having 35, as I counted them. The trousers would have been a better fit for Sir Roger Tichborne; whereas I am a man only of about nine stones; and after I had worn them about a week, three buttons came off, which I asked to be stitched on. The warder said he would see to them; but it was not till after I came away. I had a number of visitors while in the cell, amongst whom were three spiritual advisers, so-called. One of them, a curate, called twice; and the second time, in the course of conversation, had the audacious impudence to say that my children belonged to the State. I asked 54   [June 1, 1872. him why the State did not keep them? He answered that I ought to keep them; and that I was a stupid fellow. Fine consolation and advice! This is the kind of treatment I received after serving an honest apprenticeship for seven years, being in business for myself twenty-one years, having paid all rates and taxes, and never having been before a magis- trate on any occasion whatever till persecuted by this tyrannical law. My character is well known in Leicester, as I have been in this borough for about thirty-two years. There was a strong feeling of indignation throughout the town on account of my imprisonment, and a public meeting was held to protest against it, which sent petitions to both Houses of Parliament. I am glad to say that a large number of friends, vaccinators as well as Anti-vaccinators, whom I have met since I came out of prison, sympathised with me, and strongly denounced the compulsory law. As far as I am concerned, I never have obeyed this law, and, God helping me, I never will. I look upon vaccination as an invention of man, and an insult to the Almighty.- Yours respectfully, H. Matts, Rey. Hume-Rothery. Plumber and glazier. smallPox and Vaccination. (From the Worth Wilts Herald, May 18, 1872.) Sir,-The report of Mr. J. B. Fry, which appears in your issue of Monday last, commences with the word "Notwithstanding," yet it must surely be patent to every observer of evidence and statistics, that always when smallpox prevails, the general death-rate is low. The explanation probably is, that inasmuch as smallpox sends to the surface whatever is vicious in the system, when the prevailing epidemic takes such an eruptive form, it is less mortal than a disease preying internally on the vital organs. The word "Nothwithstanding'' should more properly commence Mr. Fry's third or "smallpox"' paragraph; for undoubtedly vaccination and revaccination, by diminishing the power of the subject to resist the action of morbific causes, renders those submitted to the foolish operation more liable to fall under the epidemic influence; whilst the exposure of the sick (especially while such an eruption is upon them) to the draughts and jolting of an ambulance-to say nothing of the superiority of home nursing-helps to kill many who might, under more common-sense treatment, haverecovered. It appears, 'notwithstanding,' from Mr. Fry's figures, that the smallpox death-rate in this healthy country district has not much exceeded that of London during the epidemic,-Swindon having 2°5 per 1,000 of population, and London 2°4. One word in reference to Mr. Fry's logic. Sir W. Jenner has seen 13,000 sick children, and Dr. West 26,000, without any reason to suspect that vaccination tion was the cause of their sickness; but Mr. Fry does not tell us, because he cannot, that either of these authorities ever vaccinated, or had seen immediately after one of these children, or even whether one or all of them had been vaccinated or not. Now, if Farmer Noakes have 20,000 sheep, 200 of them having taken foot-rot, and he separate the 200 from the 19,800, in order that Veterinary-Surgeon Styles shall report upon the condition of the sheep on the farm, and after his inspection Mr. Styles proclaimed in the market that he had seen 19,800 sheep belonging to Mr. Noakes, and that not one of them had the rot, would that be any evidence that there was no foot-rot on the farm? It would, indeed, be just as good as Sir W. Jenner, Dr. West, and Mr. Fry's evidence-that no children had suffered from vaccination because they had seen no injury; not being vaccinators, or being in the way of seeing the injuries which others have seen. Again: Mr. Marson, the chief prop of vaccination, has vaccinated 50,000 without seeing any injury from his own work. But Mr. Fry does not tell us that Mr. Marson, over and over again, points out that others are careless, and don't vaccinate properly, which is the way he accounts for 84 per cent. of the deaths in the smallpox Hospital having been vaccinated cases. Nor does the medical officer explain that after the 8th day vaccinators are not in the habit of seeing the vaccinated; whilst Dr. Simon and others tell us that it would take three weeks, or more, for loathsome diseases, if transmitted, to be developed; nor that Mr. Hutchinson proved, before the same committee, the transmission of such disease to eleven adults out of thirteen re-vaccinated from the same (apparently) healthy child (no blame to the vaccinator), which, however, did not appear for six weeks at least after the filthy operation had been performed ; nor that thousands of such cases are occuring all over the country, as mothers know to their cost, and as admitted by honest doctors who keep their eyes open. I have only to add, that Mr. Fry should learn that evidence consists in what persons have seen-not what they have not seen; what they know-not what they they do not know, Observer. Dangers of ReVaccination. -Dr. Porter, in a paper recently laid before the Surgical Society of Ireland, on 'The Correlations of Varicella and Variola," gave this warning against re-vaccination : -' With reference to re-vaccination, I have no faith in it. Not one of the thirty-six attendants at the South London Union Sheds have taken smallpox,. Only seven of the number were re-vaccinated, and as the remaining twenty-nine enjoy the same immunity, wherein is the necessity for the operation ? I have known gouty infiammation, abscess of the breast, and angioleucitis, to result from the operation. I cannot, in the face of such facts, approve of it; and, moreover, the sense of the profession is against it. It is only to be employed where there is no evidence of the success of infantile vaccination, and even then it seems to do more harm than good-at least, so far as I have seen." June 1, 1872.]  . 55 Baron Humboldt on Vaccination. If the opinion of one master mind of this century were to be held decisive on the vexed question of Vaccination, no greater intellect could be appealed to than that which inspired Baron Alexander V. Humboldt. In 1859, there was lithographed and printed for private circulation a fac-simile of a letter of friendship written by the great Humboldt to John Gibbs, Hsq. (a pioneer of the Anti-Vaccination movement), containing the philosopher's view of vaccination. This remarkable letter is scarce, and probably has not been seen by the majority of our readers, We cannot reproduce an imitation of Humboldt's minute handwriting, which he terms "hieroglyphic": we can only describe it as characteristic of the author of the '' Kosmos,"' and singularly fine and free for a hand ninety years old." The letter was written in French, and translations in German and English were appended to the French text. We have ventured to give new renderings of a few phrases in this thoughtful letter from an extraordinary man. John Gibbs, Esq., at Maze Hill Cottage, St. Leonards-on-Sea, Sussex. Sir,-I appear before you ashamed of a long and culpable silence. The event which now induces me to write, has been made known to me through the friendship, of long standing, between me and the Prince Adalbert of Prussia, chief of our rising navy. The amiable Miss Anna Skelton (now Mrs. Gibbs) has left affectionate remembrances in the family of General Count Grében, whose retirement from service is universally regretted. The gentle complaints of my long silence do not assuredly attach to any coldness or want of moral interest with which I had received a work full of sagacity and profound views respecting the degeneration with which humanity appears to be menaced in a large portion of Europe. I have been so much struck with the merit and penetration of mind which distinguishes the work of Mr. Gibbs, that I remember having spoken of it with just praise to my illustrious friend, Mr. Schonlein, the first physician to the King, who perceives with me the progressive growthin England and elsewhere of an opinion that the practice of vaccination is dangerous to the race, by causing degeneration, , This opinion, coupled with the comparison of the numbers unfit for military service in European countries where the conscription is in force, doubtless foreshadows impending dangers. . The length of time during which vaccination (supposed to be necessary) is thought to hold good, becomes yearly a more controverted question. But various physical causes abound -diet, the host of nervous irritations in domestic and political life, so ageravated by what we boast of under the name of progress-that I do not wonder at the circumspect hesitation of those who at the present moment do not think it desirable to change our army legislation. My personal opinion on this grave subject is-in consequence of the nature of my usual studies-of no importance; and it only remains for me, in this matter certainly quite "'cosmique,"' asin many others of like generalisation, to say, with prudence-WSento, ma non ragiono. 'That which concerns me more, is to appeal to your benevolent indulgence, and that of the ''spirituelle'"' Mrs. Anna Skelton Gibbs. Having all my life a horror of a secretary, a great abundance of letters, averaging to the number of 150 to 180 monthly, easily occasions irregularity in the correspondence of an old man of ninety years. Have the goodness to accept, sir, the expression of my sentiments of high consideration. Your very humble and devoted servant, Alexander Humboldt. You will excuse the hieroglyphic inaccuracy of these lines. Berlin, Octr. 18, 1858. The four Italian words in the above letter have puzzled our English vaccinators; but the allusion is sufficiently clear to those conversant (as he was) with Italian literature. The Baron had in his mind that famous line of the grand old Florentine, which is a household word with every Italian scholar. When Virgil led Dante along the gloomy path towards the gates of hell, the melancholy pair passed by the kimbo or habitation assigned to those who were, as the poet indicates, too bad for heaven, and yet too good for hell. Of these, Dante's conductor contemptuously remarks- "Non ragionam' di lor, ma guard' e passa:" ''The world has forgotten them: speak no more of them, but glance and pass by." To these lines the Baron aliudes in the words Sento, ma non ragiono-'*I comprehend. this vaccine question, but do not think it worth argument." The Baron perceived at that date-what is but too manifest now-that the promised vaccinal regeneration is in reality vaccinal degeneration. 56   [June 1, 1872. The Antt-Gaccinator. June 1st, 1872. In mythological narrative, Zeus is said to have visited mortals in this under-world in a shower of gold; and so Mr. John Simon, the modern Zeus, at every stroke upon the exchequer-rock sets free a spray of gold, and the vaccinators, who wait upon his nod as the lesser divinities on Mount Olympus did upon that of Jupiter, when once they have touched the metal, become one with their chief, and are thenceforth confederates in all his schemes. From that moment they are slaves to his will, do his bidding, see with his eyes, hear with his ears, and what the grand Inquisitor teaches they unblushingly proclaim from the housetops! Wonderful alchemist, that same John Simon! This usurper of the prerogatives of a health officer has so beclouded the eyes of << My Lords of the Council" with his witcheries, that he can dip his hand into the public purse, and dole out the coins where and as he pleases, and they stand by and let him do it, without seeing that, were it not for the trick thus acted, the virtues of vaccination would be lost to the community in a trice. The apotheosis of Jenner was ushered in beneath a ''shower of gold," and it is the continued and _ ever-swelling stream of that precious metal which has sustained the wretched imposture down to this very hour. When the supply shall be cut off, vaccination will cease as by magic. Reason, science, and common sense, are no match for the logic of gold, ''charm we never so wisely." The country has paid dearly for subsidising the practice ; for, true as a magnet to the pole, the death-rate follows in the wake of the payrate. . It has been no small mystery to understand how the periodical increase in the cost of vaccination could be explained. The following morceau, extracted from the Twelfth Report of the Medical Officer to the Privy Council, p.. 37, had the immediate effect of dispelling any | cloudiness on that head, for it will be seen that the great expenditure is not altogether in vaccination at 1/9 each case, but is increased in other ways, of which that now given is one instance in particular :-'' Of the money which Parliament has placed at their Lordships' disposal for award to meritorious public vaccinators, my Lords distributed during the year £3,885. 15s. 4d. The number of vaccinators to whom gratuities were given was 391; namely, 235 who received first-class, and 156 who received second-class gratuities." ''The largest aggregate payment of the year (a first-class gratuity on 2,109 vaccinations) was £105. 9s. Od.; the smallest (a second-class gratuity on 29 vaccinations) was only 19s. 4d. In illustration of the improving quality of our public vaccination, it is satisfactory to observe that whereas in 1867-8, first- class gratuities formed 33 per cent. of.the whole number of their Lordships' awards, the first- class gratuities in 1869 formed 60 per cent. of the number of awards." The average payment for each operation is 1/9, and the award of £105. 9s. on 2,109 vaccinations is equal to 1s. extra per case; and there is no question but Mr. Simon is right when he says that ''in many cases the payments were such as probably to be in themselves welcome additions to the often scanty stipends of the recipients.' We should rather think so; and we could tell him there are thousands in this country who have as much claim to a similar bonus, and to whose ''scanty stipends" a hundred pounds or so would be an addition deserving of grateful remembrance. What agitation can avail against a practice which is amply paid for in the first instance, and then paid for a second time by bonuses which amount to a subsidy! The subtilty and craftiness of Mr. Simon's genius never displayed itself to greater advantage than when he refers to the payments to meritorious yaccinators, and states that the result is to be seen in '' the improving quality of our public vaccination." Improvement, John Simon !-when we are now suffering from a smallpox epidemic more fatal than any preylous visitation since vaccination was inyented. June 1, 1872.)  . Sf It is quantity and not quality upon which the gold is showered! How can men be expected to see the mischief of a rite which is enforced by law, lavishly paid for out of the public monies, and supported by men who, from their intelligence and attainments in science, ought to know better! The day 1s fast approaching when such men as Simon, Seaton, Marson, and the like, will not be recognised among their compeers in science, if they continue to sanction the iniquitous and unnatural practice of vaccination. If they do not recant or withdraw from the further cultivation of an art which the people hate, they must necessarily sink into that oblivion which waits to engulf the very names and memories of the false teacher, whatever may be his rank or station in society. Dr. Farr, in whom we have some hope, if he were minded to do so, could, with a wave of his wand, put a stop to the freaks of vaccination tion, and, with the wizard touch of a better and higher philosophy, inaugurate an era which shall substitute sanitation for vaccination. Like the demons dispossessed of a home, diseases of every kind and shape would instantly diminish both in number and severity. Dr. Farr never put together a sentence which has in it so much force and truth as one which we have quoted more than once, and as it will lose nothing by a re-perusal, we shall transfer it to these pages, viz. :-''The primary object to aim at is placing a healthy stock of men in conditions of air, water, warmth, food, dwelling, and work, most favourable to their development. The vigour of their own life is the best security men have against the invasion of their organisation by low corpuscular forms of life, for such the propagating matters of zymotic diseases may be held to be." We have a great regard for Dr. Farr, and as an instance of that regard, we would urge him to be honest with his own philosophy, his own conscience, and not sacrifice his fair fame at the shrine of Jenner's "points and pus." As for Simon and his underlings, we would dismiss them from our mind with the rebuke-'' Ephraim is joined to idols: let him alone." We can do without the assistance of these men. The people will make short work of the vaccination question. | We have said that John {Simon ought to know better than to insist upon vaccination in any shape. He does know better. There is no doubt upon that head: but how can he get out of the difficulty? He recant! how can he? Why, the very suggestion must fill his mind with unutterable anguish. He cannot discountenance the doctrines of Jenner, nor disavow his discipleship to the man he has done his utmost to immortalise as a benefactor to our race. It is impossible! He _ will die as he has lived-a vaccinator. He will never have the manliness to recant-that is our opinion. We have more hope of Dr. Farr. In his last report for 1870, he never once mentions yvaccination! This is a significant fact-it means a good deal. Our agitation must have conyinced Dr. Farr that there are two sides to the question. When that is admitted, directly or indirectly, half our work is done. The medical profession enforce the vaccination tion dogma by an appeal to statistics only, without for a moment attempting to satisfy us that the cause is equal to the effect produced. To say the least of it, this is an act of the supremest folly and weakness. Figures are all very well in their proper sphere, but out of it they are fearful engines to employ, and the mischief they may accomplish is beyond our calculation. Imagine in what a false position Christianity would be involved, if it were attempted to prove its truth by the number of itsconyerts! The believers in Mahommedanism or Hindooism would far outnumber the disciples of a grander and holier faith. The very idea of submitting religion to any such test is absurd; but not more absurd than to appeal to statistics to show the truth of the theory of vaccination. True, there are not so many deaths from smallpox as there used to be a century ago; but vaccination has had no more to do with that, than it has had to do with reducing the mortality from the plague or pestilence of past ages. It is infinitely more in agreement with reason and science to discern 58 that the same causes which have combined to lessen the mortality from the plague and pestilence of former times, have also, in like manner, diminished the mortality from smallpox . All being diseases of the same type, and having their origin is the same causes, equally share in the improved sanitary conditions of the country, and synchronously disappear when the causes which brought them into existence have been abated or displaced. And this is really and truly the philosophy of the whole question, and there is no other satisfactory explanation. It is, however, a most difficult (if not an impossible) thing, to make people believe that for nearly three quarters of a century men have attributed the comparative absence of smallpox epidemics entirely to the wrong cause, and that vaccination tion has been credited with virtues which ought to have been placed to the account of sanitary improvements, which have grown up and spread in every direction with amazing rapidity. And we should be hopeless of performing such a feat if we could not argue from a precedent to show that a similar blunder was committed in the matter of inoculation, and which obtained for the like period of seventy years. It seems as though man was always doomed to arrive at truth by a tedious journey through a wilderness where error meets him and arrests his progress at every step. The history of medicine is full of such mistakes; and the best way of avoiding them for the future is to lean upon a staff which will not break, and pierce us with so many sorrows; and, by turning our attention to the use of simpler remedies, seek for a catholicon more suited to the requirements of our common nature. What we have objected to all along, and still object to, is-that men should attempt to show that the smallpox, in its origin and diffusion, as in its decline and disappearance, can be influenced or mitigated by any other agencies han those which we have employed with regard to any of the plagues or pestilences of years gone by, and which have receded before the progress of civilisation and sanitary science. No better example could be given, in ilustration of the improved sanitary state of England, than to instance the gradual decline in the   in [June 1, 1872. mortality of the last three epidemics of cholera, in the years 1849, 1854, and 1866, when the deaths were 53,273, 20,097, and 14,878 respectively. If smallpox deaths showed a similar regularity with respect to the decline in the death-rate during epidemic years, then we could understand the position of our opponents. Unfortunately for them, the smallpox epidemic now raging will doubtless exhibit a death-rate higher than that of any year of the present century-certainly very much higher than any year since 1841, when the State took vaccination by the hand, with the object of showing how ~ easily it could exterminate or stamp out this enemy of our race. And after thirty years' trial, at an enormous and increasing cost to the country, here it is, bright and merry as a girl in her teens, laughing at our calamities, and mocking at our fears; and neither statesmen nor philosophers can see the blunder they have made, or the crime which they have committed. Now, in this nineteenth century, Parliament, frightened out of its wits by ghostly stories of contagion, of pitted faces, and horrible disfigurements, sworn to on oath by Simon - and Seaton, and a score of other men as bad as themselves, we are presented with a Bill to continue the law enforcing compulsory vaccination tion, and that, too, in spite of the fact that the statistics of the case are all on our side. Tf vaccination were the one sole cause of checking the spread of smallpox, surely it would show itself in a more decided shape than it does. Would it not pass by the houses of people whose lintels are sprinkled with the protective virus, and sweep away the unprotected at a blow? Does it do so? On the contrary it manifests an unequivocal predilection for those who profess to be the most secure, else why are 86 per cent. of the patients found in the hospitals endorsed 'successfully vaccinated"? Why are 96 per cent. of those attacked in Paris marked with Jenner's own initials, "' secure'? ? Why in Liverpool, in the recent epidemic, were there equal numbers of protected and unprotected found dead side by side, and laid in one common graye? Why, too, in Leeds, are there 90 per cent. of the cases of smallpox all bearmg upon their bodies June 1, 1872.] the ''mark of the beast"? And, lastly-why should the mortality from smallpox be greater during the years 1871-2, than during any two years of the present century? From the above figures it is evident that the smallpox takes no account whatever of vaccination tion as a protective agent; but it does take account of vaccination as a_ predisposing agent; and it is impossible, in the presence of such figures, to come to any other conclusion than that the practice of vaccination is a contributory to the rise and spread of the very diséase against which it is urged as a prophylactic. In vaccination we are just repeating the mistake which was committed in inoculation, and perhaps to the same (if not to amuch greater) extent; but of this we shall not be able to judge correctly until after vaccination is abolished, and we shall have had a year or two's experience of the course of disease in connection with the mortality of the people. This is fairly predicable, knowing, from the highest authorities, how the smallpox was intensified by moculation, and believing that at the present day the vaccine virus is an agent equal in every respect to affect the death-rate to the same extent as its prototype. Vaccination and Death in the Army. At Aldershott, in 1860, thirty recruits from Stockport were vaccinated all at one time; within six months fifteen died, and the Government sent an inspector to examine the sanitary condition of the soldiers' quarters. They were said to have died from fever; not a word was whispered to the inspector of the real cause. The surgeon who had vaccinated the men gulled the inspector, and rather than mention the real cause, allowed the drains and ventilation (both of which were in excellent order) to be blamed, and more than £1,000 was spent to remedy what was needing no remedy. The surgeon was good enough to pretend to be concerned over so much outlay, and said to the inspector he hardly thought it necessary to go so far; but he was answered that every man lost was worth £200 to the Government, and it would be a saving to the country to make the "necessary changes." I was told this by one who was stationed at Aldershott at | | sion when he said-'" We all eat quite enough, the time, from whom all the facts and officers' names can. be obtained. James Hindle Turkish Bath, 52, Bradgate-st. Ashton-under-Lyne, May 13,  . 59 Death from Vaccination at Warrington. Your letter and papers came duly to hand, in which you request me to state the facts connected with my child's death. He was a most promising child, and fully developed ; but being troubled with the wind, my wife took him to Dr. White, the head physician in the town, who advised her to have him vaccinated, and told her to come upon the following Thursday, as he had got "good matter." It was done accordingly. The sores never healed ; inflammation set in all down his little arm, which was swollen to an alarming extent. Dr. White was called in; he said he was going on all right: but the child got much worse, so he was called in again, when he said it was erysipelas, and gave a wash for it. My wife had previously bathed it well with cream, and then with buttermilk; and that did it no good. Blisters full of water then formed themselves upon the child's arm; then nasty yellow matter came in them. The poor child all this time suffered intense pain; neither the breast or anything else could pacify it, and it was sore all over, and screamed when touched or moved. On the third day after the doctor was called in, it showed unmistakable signs of mortification; and the dear child died in great agony on the evening of the third day after we became alarmed about it-that was last Tuesday. The doctor called when the little thing was being laid out, so the women who were laying it out told him of the mortification. He said all children went that way when they died. I told him it was mortification, and that I would have an inquest; but I was dissuaded from that, as it would put me to great expense, and then the doctors would upset me with their learned Latin phrases, while the most the jury could do would be to bring in a verdict of 'Death from misadventure." This is a copy of the certificate :-" Erysipelas in fore-arm and chest four weeks and four days after vaccination. Number of days in attendance before death, three.' The child done at the same time as ours is not right, and another child done off the above, has broken out with a rash and is very ill. It is no doubt another case of judicial murder. I was very much against having him vaccinated. We have heard that there are two more children dead near to us who were vaccinated by the same doctor. The doctor said that ours was a case of blood-poisoning, and that some dirty rags had got near it. We do not keep dirty rags, and the child was well cared for and attended to. You are at liberty to publish this, as I can vouch for the truth of all I have said. oh The asi 111, Church-street, Warrington. Mr. Disraeli did not use too strong an expresand some of us drink a great deal too much; but this I will venture to say, that no man can be too well housed." 66   [June 1, 1872. Letters to 2 Leeds Surgeon. Mr. Councillor Pickering, of Leeds, had a correspondence last year with Mr. Thomas Scattergood, M.R.C.8., respecting vaccination. It is not desirable to revive the circumstances which led to the dispute, but portions of the letters of Mr. Pickering are worthy of publication. It is necessary to explain that Mr. Scattergood had been Mr. Pickering's family medical adviser for many years, and that one unexpected result of the controversy was, that the offended vaccinator declined to continue his professional services! He would neither argue with nor heal Anti-vaccinators. [Copy.| 13, Springfield Mount, Leeds, 22nd Sept. 1871. Dear Sir, * BS co ' * This vaccination controversy, I can foresee, is going to be an otfence; it will set friend against friend, and even to this extent-that a man's house shall he divided against itself. For all these events I am prepared, and shall meet them, sooner than consent to poison the blood of my children with the horrid distillation of disease and death-the discovery of that wretched Jenner! Holding the opinion I do with regard to this subject, I could not sleep in peace if I did not resist it to the utmost of my power and means. And allow me to say, that I am astonished a gentleman of your abilities and common sense cannot see through this vaccine abomination. In a former note of yours to me, you disputed the fact that other discases could be communicated by vaccination; and yet you see that your own side have proved it-proved that syphilis has been invaccinated; the same of leprosy and _ scabies. We, the Anti-vaccinators, say if it is true of one, it may be true of all diseases ; and to us this is a solution of the mystery, showing how it is that the death-rate is increasing, and has increased proportionately to the spread of vaccination. When I saw those angry and disgusting plague-spots on the arms of your own children, I said to myself-Surely if Mr. Scattergood can interpret nature, those terrible pustular eruptions ought to convince him that the thing he has done is a crime against nature, and nature's protest is plain and palpable. Further: let me say that if you, as a member of the profession, did your duty, you would not quietly see conscientious men fined over and over again, without calling a meeting of the faculty in Leeds to consider this "question, and to protest, at any rate, against that un-Hnglish practice of inflicting fines more than once for the same offence, even if yeu anit see it in your way to use your influence in the proper quarter, recomménding that the rite shall ~ be optional, instead of compulsory. . I am surprised you do no not see that this vaccination question, in consequence of the persistent manner in which the faculty uphold and enforce it, is undermining the confidence of the people in that body; and the day is not far distant when we may come to think that if you can believe and practice an art which is so mischievous, so unscientific, and so fatal, there may be other parts of your practice which are equally pernicious and equally irrational. The day has gone by when either you or any other body can demand an unreasoning compliance with any antiquated observance. Believe me, in the future you will have to give areason for everything you uphold and practice; and we have begun by calling you to account in the matter of Jenner's vaccine dogma. Wé may, as sanitarians, work, think, and toil from day to day, and year to year, about the best means of sewerage, drainage, water supply, ventilation, removal of excreta, and of middensteads; but, depend upon it, the great thing is to remove that first ''middenstead,"' the essence of smallpox, which you graft on the arm of the best of all God's gifts to married life-a healthy child. Think you God has left anything for you to mend? All His works are perfect; aye, from the monad which finds a world in a drop of water, to the mighty Saurian which once peopled the solitudes of an unfinished creation. What can you urge with regard to the rationale of vaccination? Nothing. Can you give me a plea or precedent for such an interference with the laws of nature? Is not the blood ''the life ?'' and has not the All-wise enshrined that marvellous fluid in veins and arteries, as much as to say- Touch it not ?"' The serpent's poison is powerless to do harm unless the blood is inoculated. A man may suck the cobra's poison out of a wound; but woe to him if he have a wound on his own tongue or his lips ! The student may search for knowledge in an infected corpse; but let him not do that if there is a scratch upon his finger where the blood can be tainted. So of vegetable poisons. A person may introduce into his stomach certain doses of the wooral, or the vao ; put let him infect the blood with a fourth of the dose, and death is the immediate result of the indiscretion. Do not all these facts, distinct and sublime in their teachings, show to you how terrible is the responsibility of him who dares to perform the rite of vaccination ? I know full well that the vaccinator in every operation sows broadcast the seeds of scrofula, syphilis, pneumonia, and all the sisterhood of diseases which curse humanity, and swells the mortality far beyond that of any former times. Come out from among them, sir, and touch not this ''unclean thing ;"' and show to us that you dare to be honest with your own conscience, and with the teachings of science. Shall it be that you, the members of the medical profession, will be the last to be convinced ? A speedy acknowledgment of the error will be some atonement for the past; but if June 1, 1872.3  . you wait much longer, we shall make vaccination, like inoculation, a "felony," and without your aid. Excuse the length of this letter. Asit may be final, [ wished to embrace the opportunity of declaring my views more fully, and of giving you some advice, which, if you adopt, you will some day recognise the obligation.-Believe me, sir, yours STAC CEOS Jno. Pickering. Thos. Scattergood, Hsq., M.R.C.8., Leeds. P.S.-It must be understood that either of us will be at liberty to use this correspondence as we may think fit. ; Purity Essential to Health. (From " How to Live on Stxpence a-Day." Nichols, M.D.) Fruit is the most natural, healthful, and delicious part of our diet. Man's true place and proper food is ina garden. No food is so cheap, if our soil were but given to it; in no way would an acre of ground - give us so much or cost solttle. I+ is painful to see how badly people live-and how extravagantly, at the same time, when the best of food for strength and health is so cheap and so delicious. And this question of health is not a light one. Health is the condition of industry, of usefulness, of all comfort and enjoyment; and health depends upon breathing pure air, "personal cleanliness in daily washing the whole body, wearing clean clothes, sleeping in clean beds, in*eating pure and healthy food, drinking pure water, and avoiding the causes of disease. 'These are exhaustion, dirt, bad air, clogged skins, impure and constipating diet, causing clogged intestines, coarse impure food, especially eating the bodies of diseased animals: in short, dirt in every form-dirt in the lungs, in the skin, in the stomach, in the blood. Add poisonous drug medicines, drugged beer, drugged spirits, and that most poisonous and filthy drug tobacco, and you are sure of disease in yourself and your offspring. Purity is the condition of health. The pure body is a healthy body; and the first condition of cure in any state of disease is purification. The moment the body becomes enfeebled by overwork in bad conditions-overwork with stimulants, by sensuality, by all kinds of self- indulgence-the skin, with its millions of pores, refuses to cleanse the system, the lungs act but feebly, the kidneys drain off imperfectly the waste matter of brain and muscle, the bowels become costive, and the body fills and clogs with its impurities, causing disease and death. How long we might all live, if we could but get out of our dirt and that of our neighbours! Imagine a clean London, with three millions of clean people-no more measles or scarlet-fever, smallpox, typhus, or cholera ;-no question ever more of vaccination or contagious diseases ! By TD. Mr. C. A. Bloge was again summoned for refusing to have his two children vaccinated.- The Chairman : Well, Mr. Blogg, why have you not produced the children ?- Defendant: They have been with a relative at Gomshall (23 miles distant) for two months, for the benefit of ticir health, and Tintend to keep them there.-The Chairman : This will not get rid of the summons.-Dr. Carpenter, who was on the bench, said he should be very sorry to fine a man who had such strong opinions ; and he expressed a desire to converse with Mr. Blogg on the subject.-Remanded. Darlington. Sixteen summonses were entered for hearing on one day of cases for non-vaccination. Four of these had been withdrawn by the prosecution, owing to technical errors. Three were dismissed for a like reason, excepting that in one case illness was proved. Mr. Pattinson was fined 20/-, including costs; and orders were made against Thos. Bradley, G. 8. Gibbs, A. Wheeler, John Snaith, E. B. Spence, James Metcalfe, and the Rev. J. H. Gordon. Manchester. Mr. Edward Heywood, of Polygon- street, Ardwick, was summoned for the seventh time for neglecting to comply with an order requiring him to have his child vaccinated.-The defendant contended that he was the proper person to judge whether his child was fit for vaccination or not.- Mr. Headlam: There are people called ' Peculiar People,' who, having destroyed their children by not obtaining medical advice, have been brought up for manslaughter, and you appear to be going in the same way. I shall fine you 20s. Rochester. Richard Burke, John Barnett, Frederick James Sainty, and John Cooke, all of New Brompton, were charged with neglecting to conform to the Vaccination Act. Defendants were each fined 1/- and 9/- costs.-Chatham News. Waterford. Mr. Alfred Nicholson refused to comply with the law, on the ground that he would be introducing disease into his child's system, without in any way preventing her from being subjected to the smallpox . Even the medical faculty were very much divided on the subject; and as the question was an open one, the court should deal leniently with him. -The Mayor informed him that they would have to enforce a fine; and Ald. Jacob recommended him to comply with the Act.-Mr. Nicholson said that on no account would he suffer the child to be vaccinated.-Ald, Reid: Then you will have to go to jail.- Mr. Nicholson; Very well, I will do so, and be an additional burden on the rates.-Fined 2/6,. and 1/6 costs.- Mr. Mackey then applied for a summons for that day week.   [June 1, 1872. he Wress. Be ey of He BOE Ey pth Hog a8 8 Cay seh MOe gals Bay ad9 Meo, sh H ay gah ews a(tm) oui sh Hayat stag yuh Mey eh(tm) Nay gu(tm) "ayo SHO, g 0H Hea eB ayy Scientific Fallibility. smallPox in London and Berlin. The Mediwm, a weekly journal, '' devoted to the history, phenomena, philosophy, and teachings of Spiritualism," contains (March 29) a searching editorial article on " Scientific Fallibility," illustrated by Old Physic's support of vaccination. The writer remarks :- Every sensible person knows that it is unnatural and unhealthy to put foul diseased matter from a sore into a healthy child's blood; and almost every person we meet with can adduce cases in which children have been temporarily or permanently injured or killed by the process. Every sensible person also knows that the absence of vaccination cannot be the cause of smallpox; and granting that the operation prevents the disease from manifesting itself, does it therefore promote life and health, seeing that it allows the causes of the disease to remain in full operation? 'The vaccinators are like the man whose domestic animal got poisoned, and he killed it to save its life. But to facts. vaccination tion is unavoidably compulsory in Berlin; every person is supposed to be vaccinated; and re-vaccination has been performed very extensively. What are the results? In London, with a partially vaccinated population, and a smallpox epidemic prevailing, the deaths from the disease during the last three months of 1871 were 980; while in Berlin for the same period the deaths from smallpox were 1,830. When the difference in population is taken into account, the astounding fact appears-that the mortality from smallpox 7s seven times greater in Berlin thanin London! Are we to assume, then, that vaccination promotes smallpox? Most decidedly ! Not only does it promote that foul disease, but all other diseases. It poisons the blood, depraves the juices, perverts the natural tendency of the system to throw disease to the surface, and hence, the causes of disease remaining, notwithstanding vaccination, we have an inereased mortality, more particularly from those diseases which manifest themselves inwardly in the lungs and mucous membrane. But, further, let us inquire for a moment what is the cause of smallpox in Berlin and elsewhere. The following extract from the Graphic of last week gives a sufficienly explicit answer :-'"' Berlin is looking forward to a summer with new tramways and two-storeyed excursion cars, with new suburban villas to visit, and, what is still better, an improved system of drainage. At present, Berlin is almost untenable in the summer, and a visitor can scarcely sit down at a cafe without being half poisoned by a strong odour of sewage, while the Spree is as black and turbid as the Styx rtself." Mr. R. C. Hickson, J.P., im 4 letter to the . Kerry Evening Post, remarks :- As to the general positions and facts of the '"' Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League" they are, I believe, unassailable. The opposition is steadily gaining ground at home and abroad, and will, I have no doubt, soon eventuate in the disestablishment of the disease called " cowpock."' The medical profession in the middle of the last century patronised smallpox, and continued it artificially among us by the desperate practice of inoculation. They were forced to yield and resign their protege to a new delusion, which still survives, but which will soon too disappear, leaving behind it sad-many, many sad-memories of a career of public mischief. There is a remarkable relationship between medical and ecclesiastical corporations. Both are very tenacious of privilege, and jealous of the interference of outsiders. 'There are, however, many members of the medical profession able to disentangle themselves, some coming forward and casting aside vaccination altogether as absurd and dangerous; others, who do not go so far as yet, but who are lovers of liberty, joining in protest against the intolerant compulsory laws. The Merthyr Times (April 20) published a letter on the ''Evils of Vaccination,' from George Brunswick, now at Salt Lake. We copy one paragraph :- The experience of ages has proved that the strongholds of smallpox and all other zymotic forms of disease, are where there are defective sanitary conditions, such as unventilated low-roofed dwelling-houses, improper diet, neglect of bathing, or a violation of one or all of the laws of health: therefore it is obvious that the only rational way to prevent smallpox is to remove its causes by sanitary and hygienic means. The Hon. A. S. Ayrton, M.P., when receiving a Deputation from an Anti-vaccination meeting held in London, said:--''I have paid great attention to the statements made; and I think it must be admitted that disease and death sometimes result from vaccination. I am myself opposed tothe compulsory law, which I think is a mistake. Further evidence will probably be needed to induce the Government to propose the repeal of the compulsory. law. It is not always easy to obtain evidence of the facts respecting vaccination under existing arrangements. It is said that deaths which have been caused by vacccination are not unfrequently certified as occurring from other causes." The Manchester Statistical Society recently sent a special report to the Registrar-General, suggesting an amended form of death cértificate, so as to obviate the fallaciés resulting from the present loose system of medical registration of deaths. When death arose from smallpox, it was to be stated whether the deceased had been vaccinated. June 1, 1872.]  . 03 Thirty Deaths from Vaccination in Prussia. The Magdeburg Journal (No. 192) has the following article from Neustadt, in West Prussia :- According to the Dantziger Zeitung of Aug. 13, 1871 (about eight weeks ago), in the villages of Koliebken and Groszkatz, all those who had been vaccinated were seized with illness some days after vaccination. Thesymptoms were peculiar. Instead of the usual pustules, blackish blisters came over the whole body. Thirty children died in this state after severe suffering, and the rest recovered with great difficulty. The above excerpt from the Dantzic Times is given in Fliegende Blitter fur Stadt und Land uber Homeopathic, edited by Dr. EF. Katsch, Cothen, Aug. 24, 1871. Dr. Katsch adds :-'' Other and similar cases are quoted in the pamphlet of Dr. Lutze on the Injuriousness of Vaccination. Will not the people now open their eyes?" These remarks of Dr. Katsch were called forth by the statement of the narrator, that ''Nothing has been heard as to the origin of this (in itself highly lamentable) case, which is interesting from a scientific point of view, because similar cases are not recorded in the annals of vaccination." Unfortunately, similar cases of disease and death from vaccination have occurred in many countries where this impure rite is practised, and they are recorded in the Anti-Vaccinator. We have made inquiries with the view of gaining further details respecting this wholesale slaughter from the use of the poisoned lancet in West Prussia. Netus, Letters, Xe. Chatham. - Vaccination. - Orders have been received that the whole of the non-commissioned officers and men of the Royal Engineers at the School of Military Engineering, who have not been vaccinated since they have been in the army, are now to be vaccinated, and the operation was to-day performed upon a number of the non-commissioned officers.-Chatham News, May 11. The Lords of the Admiralty have sent similar orders to the dockyard, " directing that for the 'future all engineer students and shipwrights' apprentices are to be revaccinated before being entered on the books of the yard." Oppression in the army and navy has outlived enforced enlistment and the press-gang. Sheffield. -At the weekly meeting of the Board of Guardians, Mr. Bacon moved, and Mr. Fox seconded -" That a mor' particularised return of the cases of smallpox reported on the 3rd of April to the late board be requested to be made to this board- viz., those reported by the registrars to give the date of death, name, age, residence, and to distinguish vaccinated, unvaccinated, and unknown cases; and that the medical gentlemen, Messrs. Skinner and Walker, and Dr. Griffiths, be requested to give date of death, recovery, name and residence of cases attended by themselves.''-The resolution was carried.- Mr. Dobb proposed, and Mr. Beal seconded-'"' That the Guardians of this Union respectfully request their medical staff, and the members of the medical profession of the Union, to state in their certificates of smallpox cases whether the patient has been vaccinated or not." This resolution was also carried.-Shefield Independent, May 11. Sunderland.-A. notice of the Anti-vaccinator, containing the article on 'smallPox in Sunderland,' by Mr. A. J. Pearce, assistant surgeon, appeared in the Sunderland Times of May 11. 'The tone of the writer was neutral, which may be regarded as a good sign, as the editor was formerly an "out-and-out" -or rather an "in-and-in"'-pro-vaccinator. Sheepshed.-George Ward and his sister have had the smallpox together. He was not vaccinated, and when the disease left him he was covered with pock-pits. She was vaccinated, and her sufferings were far greater than her brother's. When the disease left her, only one mark was found upon her- but that mark was the mark of the grave! This is the statement of the young man himself, who can well remember his own sufferings and his sister's death. He gives me authority to use the facts as I please.-Joseph Ward. Petition !-Mr.* Joseph Ward, of Charleyway, Sheepshed, Leicestershire, who has been much persecuted for non-vaccination, laid a statement of his case before Lord Buckhurst, and received this reply :-" Knole, Sevenoaks, 3rd May, 1872. Lord Buckhurst has received the paper containing a statement of Joseph Ward's case. If Joseph Ward has reason to complain of any injustice under the Vaccination Laws, Lord Buckhurst will be willing to present a petition to the House of Lords, if the petition is put into a proper form." Mr. Ward intends to act upon this hint. We hope his example will be followed by every person who ''has reason to complain of any injustice under the Vaccination Laws." Send the petitions, as a rule, to your borough or county representatives. It would hardly be right to trouble Lord Buckhurst with every petition, although he did propose that the children of Anti-vaccinators should be taken into custody by a policeman, and operated upon by force. Vaccination in India.- When the previous census was taken, there was a strong dislike to it exhibited by the native population ; but scarcely a trace of this feeling was detected on the present occasion. The '" vaccination"' column is expected to furnish the greatest number of mistakes. Many of the poorer classes of Hindoos do not know what vaccination is, and have no equivalent for it in their language.--~Manchester Examiner. 64 The Anti-Vaccinator. (June 1, 1872. Vaccination. To -W-. E. 'Gladstone. This is what strikes me:-Learning can be wrong, the multitude, unlearned, can be right. Yet, and because mere learning maketh strong, must the illiterate smart beneath its might? This were to change brute force for force still brute, which could not mend things. Jam only one, but dullest fools can judge on seeing fruit, and what is deadly I would wholly shun. No words nor swords compel, nor prison chains, nothing shall ever force me to inject the foulest filth into the healthy veins Nature hath formed and framed me to protect. Such sense of duty to my child is mine: Father of England at this moment, what is thine ? Stop and consider: bid to stand aside medical men; wnmedical let speak,-- men with no motive genuine truth to-hide, slaves to no greed, nor panderers to a clique. Rotting disease is ravaging the land, the doctors see it, and they do not tell ; the filthy lucre coming sweet to hand they still will clutch, and say that ald is well ! hear the unselfish, would'st thou hear no lie: _ the doctor vaccinates, pretending good ; he maketh millions ill, and thousands die, and none the better for their poisoned blood. The Prince and Queen were nearly killed: thy voice sounded, would alter all-to alter be thy choice! James Hindle. 52, Bradgate-st., Ashton-under-Lyne. Children. (Longfellow.) Come to me, O ye Children! for I hear you at your play; and the questions that perplexed me have vanished quite away. Ye open the Eastern windows that look toward the sun, where thoughts are singing swallows, and the brooks of morning run. In your hearts are birds and the sunshine, in your thoughts the brooklets flow ; but in mine is the wind of Autumn, and the first fall of the snow. Ab! what would the world be to us, if the Children were no more ? We should dread the desert behind us, worse than the dark before. What the leaves are to the forest, with light and air for food, ere their sweet and tender juices have been hardened into wood,- that to the world are Children, through them it feels the glow of a brighter and sunnier climate than reaches the trunks below. Come to me, O ye Children! and whisper in my ear what the birds and the winds are singing in your sunny atmosphere. For what are all our contrivings, and the wisdom of our books, when compared with young caresses, and the gladness of your looks? Ye are better than all the ballads that ever were sung or said; for ye are living poems, and all the rest are dead. Anatsrrs ta Correspondents, See ee oe ee ls Se ee) ee of Seno See in) aot. ee o.oo "T. V." (Dublin.) -Jn the early part of this year, another edition of 1,000 copies of the pamphlet entitled "A Letter to the Leeds Mercury on the Vaccination Question, by Jno. Pickering, F.S.S., Leeds,' was printed at the request and at the expense of the Countess de Noailles, for free distribution (by members of Branch Leagues) amongst guardians, magistrates, &. We have about 300 copies left: out of this number 50 shall be sent you for Dublin. We shall be glad to receive applications from any other towns in Ireland or Scotland fora similar grant. "B."' (Leicester.)-In No. 5, and in each succeeding fifth number of the Journal, the subscriptions to the Guarantee Fund, and to the late Anti-Vaccinator Fund, will be published. "' Inquirer" (Manchester.)-The second reading of Mr. Pease's Bill is fixed for the 10th July next. We consider it very doubtful whether the measure will pass; nevertheless, we urge upon our friends the desirability of doing all they can to assist those who are willing to aid us in obtaining such relief as the Bill affords. The Anti-Vaccinaior can be supplied (prepaid). to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- MINGla 767m) for 6 TOOMUMG ry. sieiegee iis. 6d. Oe Ne: VOM CAPE sb 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 80, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Printed ey J, Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . . ? Edited by John Pickering, F.8.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds, and Henry Pitman, Phonetic tInstitute, 41, John Dalton Street, Manchester. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. KS All Communications to be sent to the Editors, 80, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 3. June 18, 1872. [Price One Penny. New Series. Contents, Sim Page The Germ Theory of Epidemic Disease .... 65 Doctors' Knowledge ...... aie Petoleiereiarasotislered force 66 Government Spies ........ ore ery a eicieeians 5 x Homerton Fever Hospital .......... siereYersraats 67 Episcopal Scepticism......... sie roles Saree OF Report of the 'Officer of Health'? for IVECO ESECE eI SI-2) ayer slovciayey el evarelolaiosfeiere'sesiafetoxs 68 Cattle Disease and Vaccination ....... OO Maccimation Marks 6. 6.ec 08 sfaustasels oleistels.s faye 70 Meeting at Parkgate........... 500000006 nooo Oil Editorial Article......... Bovcouageo COOOOROIRC 72 omen Mosca tine Lai S MMs ey ehsa alois'eolsreis!cclele-v/ers ote 73 Subscriptions towards the Guarantee Fund.. 74 Subscriptions towards The Anti-Vaccinator .. 75 Letters to a Leeds Surgeon .........ee000-: 76 Presentations, News, &......6. Sdansounodood We Does Vaccination Mitigate smallPox?...... 78 Report of the Trial of Mr. and Mrs. Hurry.. 79 Prosecutions-Atherton, Liverpool, Sunder- BEC VIA CE SOULE (c) a). cts vise Ne ic.c qe eleva eas. 6 0180 79 see O@o nee AclISe ts cape Safer otere civ oe SAPS Gin Seton whose 50 teh) A Nut for Anti-Vaccinators to Crack ...... 80 The Germ Theory of Epidemic Diseases, An attempt is being made to instil into society the belief that our contagious epidemics are caused by invisible germs. It is confidently asserted that if we could isolate and destroy the germs of scarlatina, the disease would be stamped out. If this be true, by applying the process to other diseases of this class, our sewer gases would be rendered innocuous, by reason of the absence of the germs which now jrender them injurious. The Officer of Health for Sunderland, in a pamphlet which has just 'reached a third edition, and in which he acknowledges his obligations to Sir W. Jenner, Mr. Marson, ,and Dr. Seaton, for several communications, prints a 'list of precautions to prevent the spread of smallpox , which, he says, are applicable to other "catching"? diseases, as scarlet fever, measles, &c. One of these is-'" The air of the house may be kept free from infection, by stopping at their exit from the sick room all germs by a sheet wet with a weak solution of Condy's fluid, and suspended so as to cover the whole of the outside of the doorway." And in the preceding page we read-' Money may convey smallpox." - Our own officer of health quotes from Mr. Simon:-" The contagium (of scarlatina) remains in force for indefinite periods in clothing, &c. Persons under its influence evolve it in enormous quantities." It is difficult, we are also there told, to trap it thoroughly. (Report for 1870, p. 16.) And the Dr. quotes further from Dr. Burdon Sanderson :-" It is probable that contagium particles are organised beings." Further (p. 7)- "The contagious particles of vaccine lymph do not exceed the 120,000th of an inch in diameter.'' Professor Huxley, writing on the germ theory of disease, says :-"It has been made out quite clearly that the only part of the vaccine matter which is contagious, which is capable of carrying on its influence in the organism of the child who ig vaccinated, is the solid partivles and not the fluid." (Lecture at Manchester, Nov. 3, 1871.) Let no one now say our scientific men are wanting in faith. Who but the experimenter can prove that he vaccinated with solid separated from liquid lymph, of a size invisible save under the microscope? He may have believers, but the operation does not admit of witnesses. Our free libraries are closed or warned against the germs of smallpox, but not against those of scarlatina. Indeed, if they were closed against the germs of every epidemic disease, they would never be open : a line, therefore, must be drawn somewhere. The notion that the germs of the vaccine disease are superior in power to those of 66 The Anti-Vaccinator. {June 15, 1872. the smallpox is treated very sceptically by Herbert Spencer, who, in criticising the anxiety of our rulers to interfere in matters beyond their knowledge, says of our representatives, that 'playing the part of doctor, they insist that every one shall use their specific, and escape the danger of smallpox, by submitting to an attack of cowpox." Of this Herbert Spencer, I am pleased to observe the compliment recently paid to him by the Rev. H. Ward Beecher, of American fame :-'' There is much in him that I believe will be found sovereign and noble in the final account of truth.' Even if this germ theory be true, of what use is it? If the ambient air is suffused with untold millions of germs '"'evolved'"' from every sufferer, of what service is discussion, what is the utility of Boards of Health, and why do we not tranquilly submit to inevitable fate? This pseudo-scientific germ theory is repudiated by the Lancet of Nov. 19, 1870, where, after stating that '"'the evidence that spreading diseases may originate in places to which they cannot have been brought, seems to be complete and irrefragable," the editor observes that ''a belief in germs as the cause of spreading disease, involves the absolutely unreserved acceptance of the doctrine of spontaneous generation.' And the doctrine of spontaneous generation has long been denounced by every pulpit in the land! "Weare disposed (says the editor) to turn away from questions about germs, with a feeling akin to despair." Last year one of the Hampstead Hospital doctors caught fever from attending upon smallpox patients. I have long held the opinion that any one specific form of epidemic disease may produce other forms by infection. This opinion has been stoutly contested by officials; but it has met with the approval of the Lancet, which says :-'' We have known instances of people who have passed through scarlet- fever, and were no longer liable to it, but who were distinctly poisoned by scarlet-fever patients, so that they suffered from lassitude, headache, pains in the limbs, and even ulcerated sore throat, within a few hours of exposure." If our irate vaccinators could be persuaded to allow inquiry, we have here a clue to the hitherto mysterious and unaccountable law of succession of epidemics in our large towns. Away, then, with this interminable investigation into invisible metaphysical germs and doubtful questions of spontaneous generation, which after a century of debate will leave us in the position in which it finds us. Let us have immediate action. Whilst magazine essayists are deliberately constructing their cloudy hypotheses, adults are suffering, and infants are dying. To ecclesiastics the origim of epidemics has hitherto been an insolvable problem. Talling alike on the innocent and guilty-the saint and the sinner -they have nevertheless in all countries fallen heaviest on the poor; and the inquiry into the permission of moral evil was weighed down with the still more difficult inquiry into physical evil. The adversaries of the clergy tauntingly asked- Where was the Providence that authorised or permitted the spontaneous generation of these mysterious invisible germs which continually descend upon us with zymotic disease upon their ~ wings? And for centuries no answer could be given. Aided by the deepest thinkers of modern times, that answer I now supply. The only germs of disease 'that we need recognise, are the atoms of decaying and decomposing matter, which, when left to fester in our midst, produce every form of complaint in succession ; but when removed to the fields, become the germs of the richest fruits and the loveliest blossoms. Infused into the stomach or inhaled into the lungs, these atomic germs of active putrefaction cause internal functional disturbance. Let the process of atomic infusion or inhalation be stopped, and these germs will, by nature's sublime laboratory, be driven out through the pores in a state of highest concentration. Hence contagion and infection; and hence the need of isolating the sufferer from the impure matters which originated his functional derangement. Experiments have been made upon diseased children, by purifying the atmosphere which surrounds them, and they have recovered with marvellous rapidity. These are the experiments I approve. The inquiry into the well and the badly vaccinated in the London hospitals may now close in thickest night. The division had its origin in an expression of Dr. Jenner, who, when speculating on the value of the popular Gloucestershire custom of dipping thrice in the Severn for hydrophobia, suggested the excuse in case of failure, that " there might be bad dippers as wellas bad vaccinators !'' Leicester. Inquirer. Doctors' Knowledge. ''Doctors are most likely to know," is a very common saying; ''and yet (writes the Hiditor of the Lancet, May 18), under existing arrangements, it 1s quite possible for a student to obtain his diploma without having watched the progress of a single case of fever or smallpox , and without having had the opportunity of witnessing a single post mortem examination."' Dr. Crane, of Leicester, has just published a report on the health of the town in 1871. From the notice in the Lancet, we learn that smallpox prevailed there since May of that year: also, that '' Dr. Crane is of opinion that the prejudices against vaccination have been growing in the town; and he devotes some space to reiterating arguments in favour of its protective influence." It is further noted, that 'for 15 years there has been a steady yearly increase in the number of deaths from atrophy and debility. In 1866 there were 89; in 1871, 255. This points to the conclusion that the vigour of the infantile population is undergoing progressive deterioration ''-as infantile vaccination is increased in amount and efficiency. June 15, 1872.)  . 67 Government Spies. To the Editors of the Anti-Vaccinator. Gentlemen,- Although much occupied, I send you a few lines with reference to a great grievance amongst the poor, which the other papers will not publish. Our present Government pays a number of spies high salaries out of the poor rates; and these men persecute the parents of unvaccinated children after the following fashion, viz.:-If a child is unfit, from illness, to undergo vaccination, without manifest danger to life, it is left to private practitioners to certify the same, and the whole onus of proof is thrown on the parents. Even then they are not safe; for private physicians are not allowed to certify for more than two months at a time; whilst the spy hardly allows six weeks to elapse before he sends another threatening notice. _ I have this day seen the child of a poor patient of mine, and written my fourth certificate of unfitness for vaccination, which (I hope) will put an end to such persecution. If Jenner were now alive, he certainly would not vaccinate a child in such a state: and it has never been contemplated that the money paid by the public for the poor, should be expended in keeping up such a cruel system. <A few doors higher up the same street, 1s a family in which there is a fine healthy little girl who has lost an eye (the mother says) in consequence of vacci'nation: and another family has migrated to a different district, in order to bafile the pursuit of the 'Government spies, who are neither medical men, nor 'have they any knowledge of the mischief they mente Edwd. Haughton, M.D. 30, Kensington Park-road, W. Homerton Fever Hospital. This hospital was opened for the reception of ismallpox patients on T'eb. 15, and was closed 'in the middle of June, 1871. Dr. Collie and 'Mr. Carey have presented tables of details as 'to the vaccination or otherwise of 1,000 patients, 'constructed in the favourite style of Mr. 'Marson. In their preface, they state that- These tables are not presented in the belief that yadditional evidence is required in support of the vutility of vaccination, but chiefly as showing once nmore the difference between good and bad vaccination 'tion, and the necessity for re-vaccination about the vage of puberty. That these things are not suffiiciently impressed upon some members of our profession, appears on the face of the tables ithemselves. In Table No. 1, for instance, it will be jseen that of 670 vaccinated cases, 49 only had been 'vaccinated in the way that we here regard as well. We learn from Mr. Simon's report, that the amount paid for ''the imspection of public vaccination [resulting as above], and the awards of grants from the money voted by Parliament, was no less than £7,339. 11s. 8d." in the year 1871. Episcopal Scepticism. To the Editors of the Anti-Vaecinator. You are no doubt aware that my illustrious ancestor has been sometimes accused of originating a confused and silly spirit of expressing doubts upon all subjects that happen to be presented to the mind; and some public men seem to think it a happy way of getting over a difficulty to say-''So and so is so and so, if so and so." A just appreciation of the ideas of my Lord Verulam will, however, convince us that he was entirely opposed to this sort of talk, and that he would ten thousand times rather hear a man say-'' Of this I know nothing," than that he should presume to express an opinion based on floating doubts, when he lacked either time or talent to master the subject of his speech. I have been led into these reflections by a report (I would fain hope incorrect) of a speech made by the Bishop of Manchester, on Tuesday, May 14, thus :- He presumed that there would be no difference of opinion about the importance of vaccination. He did not believe that the introduction of the poison- if it were a poison-into the human system, wis productive of those terrible results of which the Anti-vaccinators told them. Here we have the most prominent scientific vices-presumption, doubt, and unbelief-all based upon profound ignorance; for knowledge swallows up these things, as the sun dispels noxious vapours. How different is the language of that distinguished early Anti-vaccinator, Dr. Moseley, who wrote thus in 1805 :- I wish that those who want all the world to have the cowpox, would well examine it, and inform us what it really is. Hitherto it has not been the same thing two years together. If any person will let the miracles alone, and show the machinery which performs them, even I may become a proselyte. But until this is done, I cannot set a human being's life at risque. J cannot wound an infant's arm while smiling in my face, and sending forth those looks which seem to say- You know not what you / bir) @ 4 fo Francis Bacon. St. Albans, May, 1872. 68   [June 15, 1872. Report of the 'Officer of Health" for Manchester, 1872. : This Report is unusual in its character and details, and in many ways it possesses peculiar interest for Anti-vaccinators; while as respects public weal, apart from vaccination specialties, it is significant of the great changes quietly being effected in this country at the present time. This '' Officer of Health" possesses great power; his district is not a contracted one, but covers a large area, and affects nearly half a million people. His authority is not exercised in respect of such as are likely to fall under the vigilance of the police, but is exercised under the idea of the protection of the people of Manchester from disease. He is governed by two ruling ideas, which no one can fail to see influence his rule and its exercise entirely. These two ideas are (1)-That all disease arises from certain conditions of the dwellings, habits, and surroundings of people, and are engendered by foulness of person, abode, food, air, and occupation. A large part of the report deals with this rulingidea. The other is (2)-that all diseases are not produced by such means, but are so produced, with certain exceptions (most prominently smallpox), and the idea is that infection rules its prevalence entirely. This is the portion most immediately affecting Anti-vaccinators. These two ideas conflict very considerably and frequently in the report: for instance, speaking with the idea in his mind which we placed first, the Officer of Health says, respecting ashpits, &c. :-'' Most of them were found to be open cesspools, pestilential, Jever-breeding, seething masses of putridity, emptied only at long intervals, covered with bubbles of noisome gases."' And again (p. 28) '" Let us address ourselves to that*which makes a vast underground cesspool of our city; which vomits forth its products of decomposition at every entrapped opening and vent; which isthe generator of fever in our midst; and which pollutes rivers, brooks, and streams, till they reek of putridity and corruption." Here the idea certainly is, that the conditions of foulness and impurity generate fever and disease. But let us place against these plain statements another which plainly contradicts the true common sense and wisdom of the above,-not only contradicts it, but would lead one to infer that if the sanitary conditions have been by unwearying care and vigilance made the very reverse of those just described, that still it is all of no possible avail, as hereidea 2 comes in, and the Officer of Health declares that if '' we had no single case of smallpox or scarlet-fever in the city, we should continue free from them until some person affected with one of these diseases came amongst us, or some article of clothing, &c., arrived, soon after which itis probable persons would become affected. These would communicate the disease to others, and so it would spread throughout the community." Before saying anything further upon these two directions of the officer's energies, we will endeavour to show how the two conditions are combatted, viz.-filthiness and infection. The Officer of Health has three sets of servants, who act under his direction. The inspectors of the Nuisance Committee of the City Council, by request and permission; a permanent staff of disinfectors; and ''a number of whitewashers, varying from seven to fourteen." These several officials are furnished with printed instructions, and their duties are precise. The inspector. visits from house to house in his district; cases of ''infectious disease"? are reported to the Health Officer, and the disinfector is despatched to fumigate, to urge the removal of patients to hospitals, and warn friends against visiting the house, and to report the owners of the property, &. After this is done the whitewashers proceed to clean the house, strip the walls of paper, and carry it and any clothing or bedding condemned by the disinfectors, to the corporation premises provided for burning and further disinfecting them. Special disinfecting ovens have been built for this last purpose. However much we may be inclined to quarrel with these operations, and refuse to acquiesce in granting these arbitrary powers, we must confess that they are evidently originated in the interest of public cleanliness. But we, at any rate, have no sympathy with other orders to the inspectors, which are as rigidly executed as these. Besides the duties of inspecting drains, watercourses, shambles, outhouses, conveniences, tanks, &c. &c., the inspectors are to alarm the inhabitants respecting the special disease of smallpox. 'He is in epidemic times to urge its extreme prevalence in other places, and alarm the people of his district, so that they may anticipate the most fatal results unless all of them are vaccinated and re-vaccinated. He is to state '' positively" that vaccinated children escape this disorder, or only suffer mildly. Heis June 15, 1872.) ----- to state that ve-vaccinated people 'never take smallpox, and may go about without any fear of infection." In the performance of these duties, 62,254 out of 67,430 houses were visited, and the names and residences of 3,958 young persons who had not been vaccinated were reported to the Officer of Health, who sent them to the respective boards of guardians. Now, let us come to tho conclusion of the whole matter. We find that a large number of slaughter-houses have been abolished, and the abolition of the whole of the private ones is contemplated and provided for; 2,400 cellar dwellings have been closed by the Health Committee; 2,621 houses have been disinfected during 1871; 631 houses have been cleaned or whitewashed in six months; 2,086 articles have been disinfected in the ovens; 2,200 privies and ashpits have been reconstructed by the Committee in some of the worst parts of the city. This would lead us to expect that if Manchester was visited by the smallpox, or other epidemic, it should not be so fatal as where no such precautions were used; and we find accordingly the deaths from the epidemic of smallpox in 1871 were 7 per 10,000.in Manchester, as 'against 54 and 86 in Newcastle and Sunderland respectively. And it is marvellously strange to find all this ignored in this report as influencing the presence of smallpox, and the whole _ preventive agency placed in the number of scars upon the arm, resulting from a disease of the lower animals! ''smallpox is one of the punishments of apathy, ignorance, and folly," so simple and so easily preventible "that the disease has become a crime." Yet this '' preventive"' was marked in '"' good scars" upon 191 of the 465 cases of smallpox received into the Royal Infirmary, and even upon some of the patients were the marks of re-vaccination. We will not enter upon the discussion of '' simple," "fair," *' good," or ''faint" scars. Suffice it to say, that the case is so complicated that it is summed up by the officer that no one '' properly"' vaccinated takes the smallpox. Should we take the case of Manchester as a not unlikely illustration of the action of the Health Bill now before Parliament, it will be seen that we must be prepared to sacrifice our long-cherished liberties of home and person, and be prepared for the whole force of officials interested in cleanliness, and yet still be plagued, as if they were of no value, by these insane and impotent practices respecting ''infection." We should, therefore, be up and doing to preyent any action excepting against ignorance and filth, and to protect cleanliness and purity from the policeman's violence and the surgeon's poisoned  . 69 lance. This the inhabitants of Manchester should specially care about, for this report shows no considerable diminution in the deaths of children under five years during the last four years. And until the children are allowed to grow up uninjured by the infection of decomposition into their frames, the benefits of sanitary expenditure, and the forbearance with sanitary inspection, will produce little effect. 4 wo Ist June, 1872. Cattle Disease aia Vaccination. To the Editors of the Anti-Vaccinator, Gentlemen,-The following is (verbatim) a leading article* in the Derby Mercury, of Ma 29; and it hardly needs adding, that if the symptoms it describes be the result of milk from diseased cows, instead of being a logical defence of Vaccination, it is one of the most damning arguments that could have been brought against it; for if the passage of morbid milk through the alimentary canal can produce the eruptions Mr. Latham describes, how much more horrible must be in many instances the result of a direct transfer of virulent matter from any animal into the blood of a child by the aid of the lancet! The Government Inspector of Cattle in a northern county, during the prevalence of the rinderpest, told me that the only instance of cowpox he had ever seen was complicated with that disease. A fact like that, and the facts narrated by Mr. Latham, are of themselves sufficient to make any reasonable man shudder when compulsory vaccination is spoken of and such diseases are prevalent. The "lymph" professionally used is from the cow, or it is not. If from the cow, it evidently may be the medium of a most injurious taint. If it be not from the cow, then the word vaccination is a ridiculous misnomer. I have reason to believe that many of the deaths returned to the Registrar-General as from scarlatina, are from a disease resembling that described by Mr. Latham, and possibly from the same disease. As a constant reader of the Derby Mercury, I have been so struck with the logical acumen displayed by the editor, that I am half disposed. to regard his article (see p. 80) as one of the best bits of irony that we have seen for many a year.- Yours truly, A Medical Practitioner, May 30, 1872. _* The article aboye referred to appears on p, 80, 7°   [June 15, 187%. Vaccination Marks. At the meeting of the Metropolitan Asylums Board, held on Saturday, May 18, 1872, Dr. Grieve, of the Hampstead Hospital, presented an elaborate report, containing a compliment to the energy of the Anti-Vaccinators, and stating, among other curious matter, his opinion that it was ''necessary for a person to have at least three well-defined marks of vaccination to securé an average amount of protection," meaning by that (protection!) a reduction of the chance of death to an average of 11°40 per cent. Dr. Ballard in his prize essay has a passage on this '"'mark" nonsense, at p. 123, thus :- Here I have to remark, that smallpox does not always spare in its attacks persons who have multiple scars of vaccine upon their arms: while, on the other hand, a single vesicle has in innumerable instances served as a protection [wholly imaginary, of course] against the inoculated virus, and against the influence of casual contagion. In fact, it was the [supposed] protective operation. of single vaccine vesicles, upon which the reputation of vaccination, as performed by Jenner and the earlier vaccinators, was originally built up. But the absurdity of this shuffle was clearly demonstrated by Dr. Mosely, in his Lues Bovilla, so long ago as 1805. His concluding sentences (page 110) are worth reproducing, and deserve to be seriously pondered. I have proved in the preceding pages that the cowpox is no security against the smallpox, and that the smallpox is no security against.the cowpox. For example :-William Denton, a dairyman, now living with Mr. Warren, who keeps a considerable number of cows at Knightsbridge, had first the cowpox violently ; then the confluent smallpox, and lost one of his eyes by it ; then he had the cowpox again. I have also proved that the inoculated cowpox is not a milder or safer disease than the inoculated smallpox. For example: - among other disasters, Mr. New's daughter, to whom I was called, in Chelsea, sixteen days after the inoculation, and Dr. Stuart's son in Billericay, six months after the inoculation, died the most deplorable victims to the cowpox. I have like- wise proved that all attempts to exterminate the smallpox by the cowpox, or by any other means, are as vain as the flight of Icarus, or the toil of Sisy- phus. First, because the influence of the cowpox is not permanentin the human frame ; next, because the smallpox is not merely a disease of contact, like the cowpox, but has its origin in the atmosphere, and is thereby also an epidemic. For example :-Mr. Hodges', children, with many others, after having had. the cowpox and resisted the smallpox effluvia repeatedly for several years, were attacked by the smallpox when it raged epidemically in London. It has been the same with others who had resisted repeated inoculation, It is urged in favour of cowpox inoculation that in a great proportion of cases there is no perceptible indisposition ; nevertheless, the person vaccinated is not less secure from future infection of the smallpox, provided the progress of the vesicle has been regular and complete [address of Royal Jennerian Society]. This is incredible : no person can believe that a pustule on the arm, whose influence has never reached the lymphatic system, can have made any alteration in that system. I can as soon believe that the author of this opinion would secure a person from smallpox by looking on him. Pre-occupancy is the law of nature here. Excite a febrile commotion in the lymphatic system, and saturate it with the cowpox virus, and that will, for a time, keep outsmallpox. The more the lymphatic system is thus acted on, the greater, the security against the smallpox. But this is frightful, when compared with the Iadylike aphorism, which tells people that no disease is a perfect security against the worst disease known to mankind. The cavity, scar, or loss of substance at the part inocu- lated, is not the criterion of security. It is a sign, but an uncertain one, that the habit has been sufficiently contaminated. The fallacy of this unerring test is at length exposed. I have seen this mark in all the recent cases of smallpox after cowpox. 'When the action of the virus can be traced from the part of its insertion along the absorbing vessels into the body, and fever succeeds, that is the security, such as it is. This may and often does happen without leaving after it any vestige where the matter was inserted. 'These are the points to which people who will write on the subject should turn their thoughts. If Mosely had not encumbered his argument with a defence of smallpox inoculation, Jimagine I should not now have occasion to quote him. George S. Gibbs. Darlington. Another esteemed correspondent remarks:- Dr. Grieve reports, that ''of those admitted without marks of vaccination, 51°12 per cent. died." Now, Dr. George Gregory, the great. authority on cowpox, says of vaccination (in his Lectures on the Eruptive Fevers):-''Many of the most perfect scars disappear entirely as life advances. Patients often come to these hospitals with confluent smallpox obscuring the marks." In case of death, under which head are such patients classified P and under which head in case of recovery ? 'A considerable number of children have come as patients into the hospitals, suffering from both vaccinia and variola."' A considerable number of the 4,973 were therefore children lately vaccinated. We may gather from this admission, that during a smallpox epidemic the lymph collected from children is. variolous, and partakes of the character of the prevailing epidemic ; just as in scarlatina epidemics, the lymph collected from children is- saturated with scarlatina, and spreads the disease, une 13, 1872.)  . 71 Our opponents are jusf now in a state of exaltation, probably caused by the re-vaccination which they are undergoing, else they might perceive that as Anti-vaccinators are certain to catch the epidemic (not being protected by any nostrum), and as they die zx hospital at the rate of 51 per cent., they must, in a very short period, become extinct, and the exhibition of feeling by angry vaccinators is needless. They have only to practise masterly inactivity, and we shall disappear at the rate of 51 per cent. per epidemic, just as the Chinese, and other unprotected nations, ought to have disappeared under similar conditions at similar rates. We shall in this case share the fate of Jenner's family, who, by repeated vaccinations and inoculations, became reduced in a short time to a single (and that a female) descendant. As "the character of the vaccine pock exercises an immense influence over its protective power,"' it is fair that Anti-vaccinators should be allowed.some choice of lymph; and I therefore propose as a compromise, that we be permitted, like doctors, to vaccinate ourselves and our families, under our own inspection, and (like them) to give ourselves our own certificates. Meeting at Parkgate. A public meeting in connection with the Parkgate Branch of the Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League was held in the Temperance Hall, Parkgate, on Tuesday evening, for the purpose of hearing an address by J. Pickering, Esq. F.8.S., of Leeds, on "Vital Statistics connected with smallpox and Vaccination, and Medical Statistics MRefuted."' There was only a moderate attendance. Mr. Stephen Wade occupied the chair, and in introducing the lecturer expressed his belief that vaccination had failed to accomplish the object for which it had been designed, and they need not be surprised when they took into consideration the means by which it had been kept up. He believed that while it was in the hands of the medical faculty, it would be a failure. 'They were no doubt aware that the faculty would not set their faces against anything that involved to them the question of pounds, shillings, and pence. They had to live by their practice, and they could scarcely expect them to seek to do away with that which caused a great deal of that practice. If they waited until the faculty sought to liberate them from the evils of compulsory vaccination, they would have to wait a long time.-Mr. Pickering, after giving a history of the growth of smallpox, since it was first known in the 7th or 8th centuries in Arabia, proceeded to discuss the question whether vaccination had done or could do what it professed to do. He spoke of the evils which had been caused by inoculation, and said vaccination only differed from that by the matter being taken from an animal instead of from a smallpox patient. The matter was just the same. He said Dr. Jenner had been greatly mistaken in his doctrine that vaccination sion was a prophylactic against smallpox, and contended that there was no such thing as cowpox, and equine-pox; such an idea was a mere myth. He complained of the manner in which professional medical fees were made, and said that when a regular practitioner made a mistake, he ought to be amenable to the laws of the country in the same way as an irregular practitioner. At some length he went on to give statistics, showing that vaccination was the source of much evil, and did not prevent the spread of smallpox.-Mr. Joseph Pearson, of Sheffield, then moved, and Mr. Tildersley seconded, the following resolution :-' That in the judgment of this meeting, vaccination is an unnatural and unscientific operation, and is opposed to common sense, to justice, and to the interests of the working classes; and this meeting pledges itself to resist the administration of the compulsory clauses of the Acts by every means in its power.''-This having been carried, the appended Petition was read :- To the Honourable the Commons of Great Britain and Lreland, in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the Inhabitants of Parkgate and Rawmarsh, in public meeting assembled, sheweth -- That vaccination is an unmixed evil, imparting scrofula, syphilis, and other hereditary diseases, sometimes resulting in death: that the faculty have mistaken a coincidence for a consequence, and have attributed the decrease in the number of deaths from smallpox since the introduction of vaccination to that operation; whereas the said decrease is the result of ceasing to spread smali-pox by inoculation: that the Act violates one of the fundamental principles of the constitution, by requiring parents to criminate themselves by producing the child in courts: that the medical faculty are divided in opinion as to the nature and value of vaccination as a prophylactic against smallpox, many eminent men, who have specially studied the subject, pronouncing vaccination an unnatural operation, productive only of evil: that the statistics of the London smallpox Hospital and other kindred institutions prove that vaccination does not prevent smallpox, more than 80 per cent. of the patients admitted having been previously vaccinated : that many honest, virtuous, and God-fearing parents have been repeatedly fined, have had their homes despoiled, and have even suffered imprisonment, rather than violate the dictates of their conscience, and become parties to the injury of their children: that it is the duty of all Englishmen to resist the administration of the compulsory clauses of the Acts, which violate thelaw of God. Your petitioners therefore pray that the Vaccination Act, 1867, and the Vaccination Amendment Act, 1871, may be immediately repealed. And your petitioners will ever pray. The second resolution-" That the petition now read be adopted, signed by the Chairman for and on behalf of the meeting, and sent to A. J. Mundella, Esq., for presentation to the House of Commons," was proposed by Mr. C. Morton, seconded by Mr. J. Clarke, and passed.-A vote of thanks to the Chairman concluded the proceedings. 72   [June 15, 1872. The Antt-Gaceiwator. -+- June 15th, 1872. In the annual report of the medical officer for Leeds, for 1870, he says-'' The Leeds Board. of Guardians deserve the thanks of the public for the firmness displayed in administering the Vaccination Amendment Act; and, in the face of an epidemic in the country, the several Boards of Guardians within the borough will do well not only to continue their exertions in enforcing early vaccination, but also by offering facilities for the re-vaccination of adults. The protective power of vaccination against this loathsome disease is established on too undoubted testimony to permit the medical profession to disbeheve in its efficacy; and therefore it is to be hoped that the ignorant or unwary will not be induced to disregard the inestimable boon of vaccination provided by the State, and that the intelligent part of the community of Leeds will guard themselves and their families with the protective power of vaccination, against an epidemic which may at any time extend rapidly to our borough." When health officers know no better than to praise the Board of Guardians for persecuting intelligent ratepayers who conscientiously object to Jenner's abomination, and pertinaciously advise people to put their trust in a filth-begotten remedy, as a protection against smallpox, itis high time for the people themselves to teach such mistaken men that their philosophy is a hundred years behind the age, and the sooner they retire from such important posts, the better will it be for the community. Reader-listen for a moment to a few lines from a letter written to us some time ago by a devoted worker in the great cause of Sanitation, and then note the contrast between them and the parrot-cry of official tameness :-'' ivery one who knows anything of public health questions, will agree in your views as to the practical unity of epidemics, and their determining causes; and, that exemption from all . alike must be sought not by any one thing, such as vaccination, but by inquiring into and removing the causes of epidemic susceptibility generally." These lines were penned by one who ministered daily beside the dying and the wounded at our hospitals at Scutari, during the Crimean war, and whose labours since, in our hospitals at. home, have immortalised the name of Florence Nightingale. If our wives and daughters would only read at home her " Notes on Nursing,' they would learn more in an hour than in listening for a twelvemonth to pseudo- science in the lecture halls of philosophy, where prolixity and tergiversation pass current for wisdom; the latter speaks and is praised-the other writes and is neglected. It will not be always thus. The time will come when our women shall be our physicians, and the male sex shall direct their attention to surgery. _But we cannot wait till then for an end to vaccination, nor yet for the day when our children shall be better managed in sickness. The stone is cut out from the rock already, and the motor power has been given to it, and it shall not cease to roll until all obstacles have been crushed out, and until a better light shall arise and shine upon the land. We asked once for vaccination to be given up, and should have been contented if we had got it; but now we ask for that and '' sanitation' inits stead. Our physicians shall not be our tyrants. They shall not rule in our nurseries and sick rooms until they can show a better title to our confidence and support. Men who can believe and practice vaccination (and we venture to repeat the reproach) will cease before long to command the respect and affection of the people; and they of all men fail to see it. Out of this dilemma we see no redemption. The tyranny exercised over the profession by the Medical Department of the Privy Council, and by their' own press, is as great as that which they impose upon others whose creed is unorthodox, or upon the publicatlarge. For the faculty to think, and to ''think out," as the phrase has it, practically amounts to disqualification, and places a man's livelihood in ee June 15, 1872.]  . 73 jeopardy, and not one in a thousand dares to do it. Such an act is an estopyel from which there Like a Crown judgment, it is never written off till the claim is satisfied. Nor is there anything extraordinary in that position, for it is the natural course of monopolies to run into extremes, and then to play the despot. A monopoly is a curse to those it includes within the sphere of its own working, as it is to those who are outside the pale of its operations. Hence it is that many medical men, who, if they could have their own choice, even in the matter of vaccination, would abrogate the compulsory act, and make it optional, but they can not, dare not, raise so much as their little finger to aid us in the crusade in which we are engaged. It is a pitiable and deplorable predicament; and we are sometimes at a loss to know whether sympathy or indignation is the is no appeal. temper we ought to cultivate towards those who | indirectly oppress us, and yet are themselves the subjects of an oppression as despicable and helpless. A physician may watch the symptoms of a disorder and record every phase of it, or he may discover a new anesthetic of doubtful value, and the Lancet will intone a homily to his praise ; but let him say a word in favour of Anti-vaccination views, and the bitter curse of Meroz falls upon his luckless pate. How is this? There is only one explanation; and we are sorry to be driven into a dilemma where we must account for the strange phenomenon thus brought under our observation. 'The truth is, that many of the more enlightened members of the profession feel that vaccination is a shady, objectionable practice, a rite for which there is no shadow of a precedent in nature; but the emoluments are so considerable, that, to prevent discussion which would be fatal, a silence is enjoined which is more of a prognostic than a pretence. for years past a silence, deep and awful as that which is said once to have pervaded heaven for '' the space of half-an-hour,"' has rested upon this subject; whilst the chief of the syndicate alone has dared to write in its favour, and to distribute the reward of a mischievous compliance with the law enforcing vaccination. 'The flag-ship has sailed too long on a treacherous sec e are breakers a-head ; and the whisper 1s now an outspoken voice which proclaims that diseases not to be named are communicable by vaccination. During the debate on the Irish Church, Mr. Gladstone said that his experience led him to the conclusion that when he wanted anything of the House of Lords, the sooner and the louder he knocked at the door of that house, the sooner he gained admittance, and the less was the delay in granting all he asked. The Anti-vaccinators, cantnoal into new life and energy by the fears and force of the opposition they meet with at the hands of the profession, who ought to be the first to foster a spirit of inquiry, will gather ees and courage from so illustrious an xample; and will never cease to knock at the das of both Houses of Parliament so long as this hydra-headed monster finds a lurking place in the land. The medical faculty, and their organs, have roused into life a ghost they cannot lay. Men have already learned to think that if the profession can justify vaccimation, there is no other blunder that is beyond their credulity ; and, thinking this, the idea is fast gaining ground, that of the people would be free from medical tyranny, and save their own and their children's lives, themselves must strike the blow. Their watchword is '' ree Medicine !" and no gran der thought, fraught with such tremendous issues, has struck the world's ear for many an age. Simall-Pox in Pari vs. - Our Paris correspondent writing on the 2nd, says:-"The smallpox, after gradually declining in Paris for the last two years, has now utterly disappeared from the bills of mortality. There is not a single case in the last death returns. And yetin this country there is no compulsory vaccination ; and during the war and the Commune, revaccination, in favour of which there was a feeble movement at the beginning of 1870, almost entirely went out of fa: shion. The i eaand: of half-a-crown, which the mayors are prepared to give {o any poor woman who brings her child to he vaccinated, finds few takers among the classes which entertain a prejudice against the Jennerian specific. It is very perverse of unvaccinated Paris to be free from smallpox while the disease rages in vaccinated London; but here are the hard fact ts, which I leave doctors to reconcile with their absolute theories, ''- Times, June 4, 1872,   [June 15, 1872. 74 Subscriptions towards the Guarantee Fund for the Journal, for Three Years-fromy Hebruary, 1872. Jno: Pickering, F.S.5% Treasurer. on) Su ds his Shade Bog. Se GS Ardwick. Cork. Glasgow. Heywood, Mr. Edward ...0 5 0 | Corker, Mr. J. W. "1 0 0 | Downes, Mr. Thomas A ea i: Alfreton Cleburne, Mr. S. R. .0 5 0 | Hadie, Mr. John .. 3 as AONE Walters' Me J.T x) 9 09 | Nicholson, Mr. J. A. . 010 0 | Greig, Mr. James... 1-30. 0 pine : cs Smith, Mr. Thomas . 010° 6 Gavnsberonan Barnsley. : : Cheltenham. Bonnell, Mr. T. J. ge Oe ee so me Mee .0 3 6 | Drust, Mr. William 121 0 0 2 ; Mines, Mr. ... sake 0 1) Bolton. Moorman, Mr. > OLIGO Baines Me F. O58. 0 Brindle, Mr. P. 0 9° 0 |, Norman, Mr. -910 0 | Crowther, Mr. William ...0 5 0 Bradford. Wilks, Mr. E. + Ole Oran0) 4 ; 5 a Mr. ee . ' ahs : Castle Gregory. a age! oe ret 110 ornton, Mr. H.... " Hicksom, RSC, Hsq., J.P. 2° 0 0 oe Ne Spat We White, Mr. William -.. 010 6 paige Mohn as te 1 O10 6 Barrow. Howarth, Mr. S. OED 0 ee Ree Dobson, Mr. Joseph of 0 Chorley Dawson, Mr. G. OW' aps a Hastings. Burnley. Middleton, Mr. Wm. 2 O10. 0 Dobson, Mr. John .0 7 0 | Slater, Mr. James... Bagg | see PG see Gilicte Mr. Charles le GmO ety ee Sump, Met William ...0 4 0 Gillett. Mr. J jaginen es as a - 010 0 Hull. Shilson, Mr. Chas. - O10: Cambridge. Rayner, Mr. John... 010 0 Shilson, Mr. .010 6 | Rae, Mr. James ue ee Be Barnstaple. _ Carstor. . Belleine, Le Couteur 010 0 Green, Mr. James... O25) 40 sicily Mr. G. B EA Johnstone. Bath. eroy Fraser, Mr. John ... 3a OG Goodman, Mr. S. 0 1 0 Feltrup, Mr. Andrew BOOS (c) : so Slack, Mr.G.., 1 0.10 0. | ya, Keighley. : Birmingham. Billows, Mrv'S. ke the Harper, Mr. Robert ee 20 Dewsbury. Milner, Mr. Ag me as Pe | Tyndall, Mrs. HK. ... al Oe) nee Nir. Wis .,. Calves Me eG rae Bishan Auckland, Pelee ES es Manon tee ke ed see Kolbuun, Miro No... 72.0 @ _ Darlington. enon Lingford, Mr. 8. 8. - O80: 310 Gibbs, Mr. G. S.°... oe OUEO, Dai My. Jon 290 Gordon, Mr. J. H. 0 0 OO ay see a ee Bury. Morrell, Mert be Belstead, Mr. H. ... wt) of 8 oe pac > on ots 60) pel * Lord, Mr. William ee) F Wohieeler: Me Alox 1 0 0 | Dornbusch, Mr. George ...*5 0 0 Whitaker, Mr. John Ba a see 7 ; Knight, Mr. George '0 Oe 6 Blackburn Dunkettle. ce Mr. as 5 650 0 10 6 P Leia "Mr James oO BY -@ Griffiths, Mr. 'Richard a) a0" 0 Stephens, Mr. Toba: 0 10 6 a Pie coaanr ee SLE ol a ' Wilkinson, Mr. William... 1 0 0 Stones, Mr. J. B. ... ee Doncaster. Wilki Mr aan Mitchell, Mr. Alfred fib kinson, Mr. J.J.G....1 0 0 Roberts, Mr. W. H. POLIO. 0 Durham. Leeds. "a Pritt We J 1 0 9 | Bean, Mr. Richard 2. OO Bedlington. dsas beh (i e¥ 1 : Kenworthy, Mr.W. EH. ...5.0 0 Unwin, Mi was jum =..50 2.0 Enniscorthy. Lingford, Mr. J. ... as and Cheetham Davis, Mr. Francis, sen.... 2 0 0 Marsden, Mr. Alderman... 3 3 0 Bealey, Mr. RB. B. Oo 0 Davis, Mr. Francis, jun.... 2 0 0 Pickering, Mr. Jno. 50 0 0 Clifton Exeter. White, Mr.... ; 5402 aOR to Newman, Professor 9 0 Gerred, Mr. Joye... O..6.78 Liverpool. Havill, Mr. J. W. -1 0 0 | Burgess, Mr. Edward 0-6 8 Chesterfield. ees) saat s Chaves Me Bw. 6 6 Eastbourne. Burgess, Mr. Wiliam ..0 6 8 Ford wee Charles 0 5 0 | Noailles, Countess de A....10 0 0 | Leighton, Mr. Andrew ...10 0 0 , Mr. i. Lawton, Mr. James 0 "S (c) East Halton. Lewes. Seaton, Mr.... "0 10 0 | Hall, Mr. William .b 0.0 | Martin, Mr: Thomas | ....2..0. (c) Carlisle. Gloucester. Leigh. Hunter, Mr, C. "0 7 6 | Morris, Mr. William 0°85 0 ) Sai Mr, tT. Cs oe as ? ~ ais June 15, -1872.] Leicester. Booth, Mr. A. Lakin, Mr. D. Cowley, Mr. Walter Leek. Carr, Mr. James ... Loughborough. Dudgeon, Mr. H. D Longsight. Hamer, Mr. Joseph Manchester. Griffiths, Mr. Thomas Hoyle, Mr. William Holt. Dir. kohn. _.. Hill, Mr. Edward... Jackman, Mr. C. W. Lucas, Mr. William Larkin, Mr. Jos. Vickers, Mr. R. Woodhead, Mr. Willett, Mr. William Wilcockson, Mr. John Middleton. Wright, Mr. Isaac Macclesfield. Scanlon, Mr. Charles Malton. = Onrvern, Wir Ep 2,' Douthw aite, Mr. S. ivead,. Wit.. T. Read, Mr. Ri chard Thelwall, Mr. G. Middl peek Cowper, Mr. William Ireland, Mr. FF... . Newcomb, Mr. G.... Maryport. Adair, Mr. William Newcastle. Beall, Mr. John Procter, Mr. Edmund Procter, Mr. Joseph Thomas, Mr. Josiah Nottingham. Holland, Mr. William Nuneaton. Lilley, Mr. Thomas  . as : W. H. 6 eS: per oy mon & oD: pees eae 0) > Oia h soy Ook) 5 Oi) Seale a0) (eee, On 5S Gal Org el see pe Ole. 0) te 5 ek FQ) 0 10 = 0) Aue S'S SiS and Or Orn rf fF of O'S 2 0 i 0 a 9 &- 0 eat 0 10 wail 0 S SaaS = SiS ODO l & So i) SSS) Sy SSS SS SS i=) SSxa) S) Norton. Talbot, Mr. Over Darwen. Almond, Mr. Henry Old Hunwick. Binns, Mr. John ... Passinans. Ashworth, Mr, George Preston. Foster, Mr. Edward Rochdale. Collinge, Mr. Turner Grindrod, Mr. James Greaves, Mr. J. E. E. Hindley, Rev. T. . Kershaw, Mr. : Sykes, Mr. William. Sheffield. Cawthra, Mr. Walter Cheetham, Mr. Dawson, Mr. George Delaney, Mr. John Feltrup, Mr. William Fox, Mr. William... Flint, Mr. William Eorby Mr... | on Henstock, Mr. James Linsley, Mr. Peter May, Mr. James ... Pearson, Mr. Joseph Parker, Mr. William Swinstoe, Mr. W. J. Weston, Mr. George Weston, Mr. James Stacksteads. Hargreaves, Mr. D. George Stockport. Wheeldon, Mr. James Sheepshed. Mee, Mr. Charles ... Ward, Mr. Joseph... Southport. Boothroyd, Mr. B. Todd, Mr. James ... Sudbury. Sands, Mr. N. ix Thurlow, Mr. W. ... CO br a telat an tal abe) OY telat ne et Oe al lee St GT aie Ciel CLT f Thomas ... Si SS SS SS SIS SS SS re SS SIoe S nen S it peat oonmon = it DR OOOH SO ON DD OH OE of - S et or Sa aC S'@ SSeS S SS S's SSIS Se Sia > = SF SS as oo South Ashford, Hickels, Mr. William Smith, Mr. William Strood. Picnot, Mr. Charles Scarborough. Tugwell, Mr. A. J. Sunderland. Pearee, Mr. AJ. *, Stafford. Lapworth, Mr. W. J. St. Helens. Hunt, Mr. John Smallbridge. Dewhirst, Mr. J. E. South Shields. Basham, Mr. J. F. GC. Southampton. Caven, Rev. R. Tarporley. Blackburn, Mrs. C. Tyneholm. Trévelyan, A., Esq-; J.P. Wells. Miller, the late Mr. Taplin,..Ma. J3 K...., Wednesbury. Southern, Mr. is ge Wivenhoe. Harvey, Mr. A. Warrington. Bennett, Mr. John West Heath. Bell, Mr. J. A. Wolverhampton. Atkins, Mr. Mark.. Bevins, Mr. Joseph Wigan. Booth, Mr. L. Willoughton.. Andrew, Mr. Georg's Lea * Donations. Donations towards the late "Anti-Vaccinator" Fund. Mitler, the late Mr. T. &. (Wells Gillett, Mr. Charles oe Corker, Mr. T. W. (Cork) .. Jno. Pickering, F.S.S., Treasurer. Smith, Mr. Thomas (Cork)... Jackson, Mr. R. H. do, Sundries do. Sook S. Pe) 0 10 0 6 to ee OF 2 0 5 Ome? O58 0 10 a 0 a 2 0) $l ab 00 AKO 0 10 i es | da 0) tO Oe Ss 0) 0 5 SE dh 5 0 5 0 Fs yah PS oo &(r) om) 76   [June 15, 1872. Letters to 2 Leeds Surgeon. (Continued from p. 60.) [ Copy. | Springfield Mount, Leeds, 26th Sept. 1871. Dear Sir,-On the general question, I must inform you that I cannot allow you to ride out of this correspondence on the back of a trifling personal grievance. The representative character of the position into which I have been forced, both by the authorities and by a portion of the press, justifies me in pressing you, as a public vaccinator and medical man, whose experience and education are appreciated, to give me a declaration of the facts or views which are a vindication to you in saying-"I am, from full conviction, a firm believer in the value and efficacy of vaccination, and am an advocate for its compulsory performance.'' Now, I assert most solemnly and religiously, that no man is authorised to commit himself to such a sentence as that unless he can, when asked, give some facts--facts which must be, if true, as clear to others as to himself, and which are sufficient data to form a judgment, and sufficiently broad and conclusive to justify compulsory legislation. If vaccination be a fact, there must be some great truth underlying it, and ought to be as susceptible of demonstration as the proposition that the square of four is sixteen, or that the four sides of a square are equal to each other. It is not enough to say- I am, from full conviction, a firm believer in the value and efficacy of vaccination," without, at the same time, giving "'the reason why." There can be no difficulty about it to a gentleman who is a lecturer at the Medical School, who is accustomed to give scientific evidence, and to whom the writing of a letter is no task. I protest, therefore, against the concluding paragraph of your note, wherein you say-'I must decline to enter into a controversy with you on the general question. Ido not suppose I should be able to convince you; and I am quite sure that you cannot convert me to your views." I tell you, I have no interest in vaccination. The two considerations which move me are-first, the health of my own children; and secondly, the health of my neighbour's child. My mind is open and receptive to truth from whatever source ; and facts are things for which-I have as great a respect as any man: of your acquaintance. 'The same class of facts which convince you, ought to convince me, and if they do not, "so much the worse for the facts."" Let me have them at once in black and white, and I promise you to give them a fair and impartial consideration. Vaccination is not like a question which may be a mere matter of opinion, and upon which any two men may differ, and no harm result to either, or to anybody else. To me, and to thousands more (and their number is daily increasing), it is a question of life and death ; and our objections to it are so strong that neither pains, penalties, nor imprisonment have any effect: and believe me when I say, that if the fires. of Smithfield were relighted, if "'Tyburn's triple tree'? were erected once more, the opposition to vaccination would not be extinguished by any such expedients. When resistance to a law or an observance assumes proportions of such magnitude, the public mind must be satisfied, or its sentiments respected. Under these circumstances, are you to be allowed to shelter yourself in silence, and reap the reward of a rite which we hold in abhorence? Is it to be supposed we shall continue our confidence in you, or your treatment, if, In upholding the compulsory vaccination laws, you are directly the means of oppressing us with a burden we are determined not to bear any longer? We, the Anti-vaccinators, have looked Jenner's prophylactic in the face; we have examined it in every aspect; it is a disgusting and cowardly practice-a practice for which you can invent no plea; and we have vowed to God that we will give ourselves no rest until the hydra-headed monster has been destroyed. That vow is registered, and we have sworn to keep it, and you shall see if we fail in our duty. It is even now only a question of time. How is it possible, I would ask, that among our intelligent community a practice can obtain which, for its very cruelty, its hideousness, . and its deformity, ought only to be found among a nation of savages and barbarians? Almost every man I meet with has a personal grievance against the rite. Theindignation of the people is widespread and deep. The cloud in the distance which foretells the approaching storm is big enough.-to be seen, and the whistling of the wind as it lashes the waves is loud enough to be heard. Do you say that in this matter of vaccination you cannot be mistaken P Cannot, indeed! but you (the faculty as a body) were mistaken when from 1722 to 1798 you inoculated the people with the filth of smallpox; and ruin, disease, and death, held their saturnalia in every house in the land. From 1798 to 1871 you have committed the same mistake in inoculating our children with the filth of vaccination, and they perish by thousands; and we have stood by, seen you doit, and until now have neither questioned the wisdom of the art, nor raised a hand to protect our offspring from a practice so merciless and so unnatural. 'The earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof''-the filth thereof isman's. Could you but see it, in every operation, death stands at your elbow, and with hollow mimicry laughs at an art which confirms his sway, and renders his power absolute. In centuries past the dance of death was illustrated on print and canvas; but in this more practical age the Macaber dance is tragically true to life, and old and young take their parts, slip off the stage, and swell a death-rate far outstripping that of any ee see sale Sy = June 15, 1872.]  . je previous epoch. The statistics of the mortality of this little island are sickening to the heart, and the tale is more appalling because we fecl and know that more than one-third of it might be prevented. The vaccinator, the poisoner of our children's healthy blood, is the man whose lancet commits more havoc every year than plague, pestilence, and famine put together. The vaccine virus is human poison ; it is smallpox merely passed through the cow, then it is taken from the beast, and transmitted through generation after generation of children with all sorts of disease conditions upon them, the germs of which become mixed with the virus, and is thus communicated and diffused all around, until the land has become a huge pest-house. Do you say ' Vaccinate and stamp out the smallpox '? Never, till you cease from stamping it in. Now, vaccine virus is smallpox matter; and if you sow the seed you reap the fruit. smallpox isa disease which cannot die out, because you will not letit. It would have disappeared long ago, lke the ''nlaoue,' the "black death," and the "sweating sickness,' had you let it alone. Your interference keeps it amongst us. Do you affirm that vaccination is a " prophylactic against smallpox''? What! smallpox a protective against smallpox? Did you find it so in " inoculation?' Does the cobra bear in its body an immunity fromits ownvenom? Tease the animal until it inflicts a wound in its own flesh, and death ensues as speedily as if the bite had been inflicted on a child. If smallpox is protective against smallpox, then syphilis should be protective against syphilis, hydrophobia against hydrophobia, rinderpest against rinderpest, and every other inoculable disease should be protective against itself. A more monstrous doctrine never was propounded! There is no such thing as a prophylactic against disease, save that grand prophylactic-a healthy mind in a healthy body; and to produce that desideratum the man must be surrounded by all those sanitary conditions which promote health; and if a man or a nation be in that position, he or the people at large need not fear smallpox, nor any other disease of that type. In this matter of vaccination, the faculty, like a stag at bay, must meet us fairly: fleetness in getting out of the way will be no match for that dogged perseverance with which we shall pursue this inquiry. Let us hear no more of vaccination (7.¢., smallpox matter) being a prophylactic or a protective. It is a provocative of disease; and the more you vaccinate, the more you increase the death-rate and the disease-rate. In Berlin during the present year smallpox has been epidemic and very fatal; and if any fact can convince you of the folly of the notion that vaccination is a protective, it is in that city. There is no battle there as to statistics between vaccinated and unvaccinated-they are all vaccinated, and the majority re-vaccinated ; and the mortality from that disease in Berlin, in a population three times less than London, has been three times greater. An astounding fact,is it not? How can it be accounted for? Why, simply on the principle * that the more you vaccinate-the more you poison the people with smallpox matter-the more deaths you have. Itisa law of nature; and it is an instance of the grossest stupidity to fight against it. Cleanliness produces health; filth, in whatever shape, produces disease and death. In conclusion, I beg to say that I have urged nothing in this letter with any intention to offend. Our object is the same-the health of our children and of the people. If we differ as to the means in securing it, surely those means can be discussed with candour and without ill-feeling. In referring in this note and in my last to several topics bearing on the general question at issue, I have done it with the idea of clearing the way ; and I shall leave it with you to put your case before me as briefly as you think proper.-I am, dear Sir, yours truly, Jno. Pickering. Thos. Seattergood, Esq., M.RC.S., Leeds. News, Wetters, &e. en Presentation.-Mr. John Fraser, of Johnstone, N.B., who has reached his 79th year, and has for two generations been a pioncer of progress in matters political and social, especially education and music, was lately presented with a well-merited testimonial, in the Town Hall, Johnstone. The testimonial consisted of a purse of gold, silver inkstand and salver, and an address. We notice the pleasing event, because Mr. Fraser has helped the Anti-vaccination movement with his pen, notably in his forcible letters to Mr. Bruce, M.P. Isle of Wight.-Presentation.-l'rom a long report in the Hampshire Independent, we learn that at a public meeting, held in the Queen's rooms, Newport, under the able presidency of Mr. Phillips, a purse containing a considerable sum of money and an address were presented to Mr. James Hobbs, in token of personal respect and sympathy because of his imprisonment under the despotic compulsory vaccination law. Leigh.-An. inquest has been held at Bury-lane on a child who died suddenly after vaccination. The parents of the child believe that it died through vaccination; but the verdict was ' Death from natural causes." A gentleman at Atherton has been fined 20/- and costs. These events cause parents to doubt the virtue of vaccination.-J. W. Whiteley. The elders of the Peculiar People have been holding a Conference in Essex, at which their position with regard to the medical faculty was discussed. One of the brethren proposed that they should comply with the law, and call in a doctor when their children were sick; but the Conference decided to leave each member to his own discretion in the matter, 78   tJune 15, 1872. Does Vaccination Mitigate smallPox ? To the Editors of the Anti-Vaccinator, Gentlemen,-It is frequently asserted as "a fact that cannot be denied," that vaccination mitigates smallpox. The proof divides itself into two yarts : one, the mortality of the disease-that is, the number of deaths occurring at different times among populations differently circumstanced as to vaccination ; the other, the fatality of the disease-that is, the proportion of deaths among those attacked. First-as to mortality. When before the Parliamentary Committee, Mr. Simon stated that he considered the effect of compulsory legislation, commenced in 1854, was to double the number of operations in London. 'The people in London then would be twice as well off, as regards vaccination in 1871, as in 1888; yet the smallpox death-rate of 1838 was 2,080 per million of population, while in 1871 it was 2,420. Again: the epidemic smallpox mortality of 1838-39 is represented by 1,380, while that of 1870-71 amounts to 1,760. The French reports show the same non-effect of vaccination on smallpox mortality. In 1865, '66, and. '67, the mortality in ten departments where the proportion of vaccinations to births did not exceed 29 per cent., was respectively 16, 11, and 1 per thousand of births; while in the ten departments where the vaccinations reached 100 per cent, of the births, it was respectively 106, 63, and 116 per thousand of births. It is also well known that the present epidemic has been at least twice as fatal in Berlin, where all are vaccinated and re-vaccinated with rigour, as it has been in London, where we cannot help thinking there are many unvaccinated persons, in spite of Mr. Simon's assertion that the population is 974 per cent. '"protected:' But 'look at our re-vaccinated army," constituting, according to Dr. Seaton, '"'a perfectly protected population. An examination of official documents shows that in the ten years-1859 to 1868-there were 117 smallpox deaths in the army, equal to an annual ratio of 1:46 per 10,000; while the smallpox death-rate among the civil population over five years of age, was 0°86 per 10,000 only-that is, less than two-thirds of the army rate. Yet, not long since a medical man, professing a desire to prevent working men from being gulled, with these facts within his reach, wrote and published as authoritative information that "such a thing as a fatal case of smallpox is almost unknown amongst our soldiers at the present day." Second -as to fatality. Rhazes, the first physician who wrote distinctly on smallpox, nowhere in his treatise gives a percentage, but he states that "the smallpox is less to be dreaded than the measles." Dr. Wagstaffe, writing in 1722, says that "in this season not more than one in a hundred of those attacked dic." Mr. Isaac Massey, apothecary to Christ's Hospital, writing in 1723, says that '"' during the eight years he held that position, there had been only one death from smallpox among the children, though hundreds had been down of it.' On the other hand, Dr. Jurin, who at the same date advocated smallpox inoculation, and therefore tried to make out a case against natwral smallpox, estimated the fatality-probably from hospital experience-at two in eleven, or_18 per cent. ; and Tissot, another inoculator, estimated it in 1750 at one in seven, or 14 per cent. The Kirkby Stephen parish register has records of two smallpox epidemics in 1755 and 17638, in which the fatality is given respectively as 6°8, and 8 per cent.; and Edward Jenner writes in 1801 thus:--'' About seven years ago a species of smallpox spread through many of the towns and villages of this part of Gloucestershire. It was of so mild a nature that a fatal instance was scarcely ever heard of.' In those times all those attacked were unvaccinated; and we see that the utmost partisanship of the vaccinators' predecessors in quackery did not produce a more serious charge against natural smallpox than a fatality of 18 per cent.; yet we are ever and anon coolly told that "the minimum mortality of smallpox occurring in unvaccinated cases is 36°7 per cent." If this were so, we should have to believe that vaccination made smallpox twice as bad as it used to be in those not operated on. I am perfectly aware that certain hospital statistics give a fatality of 36 to 66 per cent. in cases "unprotected" -mark, not unvaccinated. We may, therefore, look for a moment at hospital statements. The writer on smallpox in Rees' Cyclopoedia, published in 1779, states that ''it appears from a general collection of facts respecting patients in hospitals, that out of every 400 there die 72," that is, 18 per cent. 'The statistics of the London smallpox Hospital (Mr. Marson's) for 16 years ending with 1851, show a general fatality of 19:9 per cent. ; the last year's report of the same hospital shows a general fatality of 18°8 per cent.; and Dr. Grieve's report of the Hampstead Hospital, published partly in the Zimes of May 20, 1872, gives a general fatality of 19°36 percent. If the mitigation theory were true, the general fatality should, of course, diminish as the number of vaccinated patients increased ; but, in the first case the vaccinated were none, in the second they were 61 per cent. of the whole, and in the third they amounted to no less than 91°5 per cent. ; viz., out of 950 cases, 870 were those of vaccinated persons, and 0 ag June 15, 1872.]  . 79 in the last they were 79°36 per cent., 4,937 out of 6,221; yet we see the general fatality is not affected to any appreciable extent. This being so, if we are told that on a classification of patients there is a gain in one class operated on, we are entitled to insist on an explanation of the supposed fact, that those who are not operated on die now in a proportion double or treble that of the last century patients. Further: out of the 870 patients mentioned above, there died 130, being a proportion of 14°9 per cent. ; and the fatal cases in the army (117) occurred out of a total of 1,523, being a proportion of 77 per cent. The proportion of fatality among Dr. Grieve's patients was 11:40 per cent. Another reason for declining to believe in the theory that vaccination mitigates smallpox, is a knowledge of the fact that smallpox itself does not mitigate a second attack. Here are the authorities. Bousquet (Nouveau Traité de la Vaccine, 1848) in his chapter ** Does smallpox occur after smallpox ?'' mentions 26 cases, of which five proved fatal; two of these are royal cases-one, Louis Quinze, who died of smallpox at 64, having suffered a first attack at the age of 18; the other his son, the Cardinal de Bourbon, who recovered both times. Again : at page 294, Bousquet gives a list of 34 cases with five deaths. In Mr. Simon's "Papers," &c., 1857, we have two statements-one of 41 cases with seven deaths; and another of 12 cases with four deaths. In Dr. Seaton's ' Hand-Book of Vaccination," 1868, pages 203-4, we have the following :-" Heser states on the authority of Regoni-Stern, that at Verona, in the ten years 1829-38, twenty-four cases of second smallpox had been noted, eight of which were fatal; and Heim reports in the epidemics of Wurtenberg, 1831-5, fifty-seven cases of recurrent -smallpox, of which 16 died; and in subsequent epidemics 86 cases, 12 of which were fatal." Lastly: 'in the report of Dr. Munk and Mr. Marson for 1871, we have six cases, two fatal. Bringing all these together, we have 286 cases, with 59 deaths-a fatality of 20°63 per cent. I remain, yours respectfully, George 8. Gibbs. Darlington, May 22, 1872. Report of the Trial of Mr. and Mrs. Hurry, In the Anti-Vaccinator for June 1 (No. 4) we 1 reported the trial of the '' Peculiar People," 'who were charged with manslaughter for 'declining to use medicine and vaccination. A ' "special" report of this interesting trial has ) now been published, with the entire speech of ' Mr. Baker, the counsel for the defence. The | price is 1d., 9d. per dozen, 5s. per 100: orders 'to be sent to the printers, Millin Brothers, | Wokingham, Berks. We hope every friend of ) medical freedom will circulate many copies of ' this report. Vaccination Prosecutions. Atherton. Mr. Ralph Peters, of Stanley Terrace, Leigh- road, has been fined the full penalty, and costs, for delaying the vaccination of his child, through fear that the lymph was impure. Liverpool. At the County Magistrates' Office, Liverpool, on Saturday, before Mr. Edward Gibbon and Lieut.- Colonel Thompson, Mr. Cleaver appeared, at the instance of the West Derby Guardians, to prosecute two persons of respectable position, for not having their infant children vaccinated in proper time, in accordance with the provisions of the Vaccination Act. The defendants were Roger Barrington Wallworth, tea dealer, Everton Crescent, and Thomas Black, oil merchant, Lansdowne-place ; and they were each fined 1/- and costs. - Liverpool Courier, 18th May, 1872. Sunderland. Thomas Sutherland, grocer, was yesterday summoned before the Sunderland magistrates for refusing to comply with the provisions of the Vaccination Act. The defendant handed in a certificate showing that the child was unfit for vaccination. -Mr. McKenzie said the order was made on the defendant on the 29th of February, and the certificate should have been produced before this.-The Bench fined the defendant in the amount of costs, Ald. Thompson remarking that he should have shown some time since that the child was unfit for vaccination.-Defendant : Then I'm fined for an error of judgment.-Alderman Thompson: No; for not complying with the Act of Parliament. - Defendant: I cannot comply ; the child is unfit, as Ihave proved. There is not a particle of justice in the whole case.--Northern Daily Express, May 30. Waterford. In No. 4 we recorded the prosecution of Mr. Alfred Nicholson; and the report ended with the statement that, after the conviction, the prosecutor instantly applied for another summons for that day week. 'This sharp practice did not escape the notice of the Board of Guardians. At their next meeting, Mr. Clampett said there was a great difference of opinion, even among doctors, as to the propriety of having children vaccinated. At all events, Mr. Mackey had no right to take out a new summons without instruction from the board. It seemed very like persecuting Mr. Nicholson for holding an opinion of his own upon the subject. He thought they should ask the opinion of the Commissioners upon the matter. The Guardians concurred in this view of the case. ei ac [June 15, 1872. 80   Fresh Ait: Do you wish to be healthy ?- then keep the house sweet ; as soon as you're up, shake each blanket and sheet. Leave the beds to get fresh on the close crowded floor; let the wind sweep right through- open window and door. The bad air will rush out as the good air comes in ; just as goodness is stronger and better than sin. And more cheerful you'll feel through the toil of the day, more refreshed youll awake when the night's passed away. You are weary-no wonder ; there's weight and there's gloom hanging heavily round in each over-full room. A Nut for Anti-V aceinators to Crack. See p. 71. (From the Derby Mercury, May 29, 1872.) One of the principal arguments which the opponents of vaccination bring to bear against the practice is, that it tends to bring on eruptive diseases in children as bad and as disfiguring as smallpox itself. 'The occurrence of crops of. eruption soon after vaccination has been in many cases held up triumphantly in proof of this statement, and medical men have not been always able to account for or subdue these appearances so well as could be desired. Various surmises have been hazarded, and sundry shrewd ideas have occurred, but none of them appear to be so valuable as that of Mr. C. R. Latham, who writes as follows to the British Medical Journal :- I should like to be permitted to mention a case, now under my notice, which leads me to suspect that the milk of animals suffering from foot-and-mouth disease (which cannot fail to be, in a general way, unwholesome) is also capable of producing symptoms of a specific character; and, at the same time, to ask your readers whether any of them have met with cases which tend to corroborate this suspicion. A healthy male infant, aged seven months, not yet suffering any irritation from dentition, was vaccinated on April 15, and passed through it without a bad symptom ; he had been brought | up principally on cow's milk, to ensure the purity of which the nursemaid has always been sent to see the milk drawn, and always from the same cow. <A few days ago, a roseolous eruption made its appearance on his face, body, and extremities, in large circular patches of a bright rose colour; his hands, face, feet, and abdomen swelled, and altogether he had the appearance of one poisoned by mussels or*other fish. The eruption afterwards extended to his scalp, and became almost livid, lasting about five days. There was great heat in the parts affected, but no itching, and no great constitutional disturbance; he only seemed rather languid, and more disposed to sleep than usual. I was puzzled to account for this, until I heard from the nursemaid that the cow had sore feet. I went to the cowbarn, and found that, although in every other respect a fine animal enough, she was suffering unmistakably from the foot-and-mouth disease. Another cow in the same stall was suffering in a sitilar way, and the disease had extended to the udder. The milkman was drawing the milk from this cow on the ground. It had none of the characteristics of milk, but was a limpid, amber- coloured fluid, like serum or whey. Another child of the same age (twin), fed with the same milk, has suffered from a pestular eruption on the head and face, differing materially from ¢mpetigo or eczema impetigi- nodes. The milkman took the matter very coolly; but he horrified me by a statement (which I trust is not true) that the disease prevails in almost every cow-barn in London. If that be so, it is quite time these places -were Officially inspected, and milkmen prohibited from selling the milk of diseased animals. We may be sure that had the above case come under the hands of one of the professional agitators it would have been cited as the result of vaccination, and an addition would have been made to the ""martyrology"' of the Anti-vaccinators. After reading Mr. Latham's letter, and comparing it with some experiences of our own, we are led to the conclusion that impure and unsound milk has very much to do with the eruptive disorders of childhood; and we would advise parents, instead of running headlong at the red rag with which the Anti-vaccinators try to excite their angry feelings, to calmly inquire for themselves into the chances of protection which vaccination affords to their children. It is quite certain that in the above case the poisonous matter was introduced into the system through the agency of food, and not through the point of the much-abused lancet. The general interest attaching to this subject is our excuse for transferring the above from the columns of a professional to those of a lay journal. The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... 1s. 6d. Do. Li oe eae io: Sessefebel 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 30, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Printed by J Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury, The Anti-V accinator, and  . --}-__ Edited by John Pickering , F.S.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds, and Henry Pitman, Phonetic ' Institute, 41, John Dalton Street, Manchester. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paremnnater Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. All Communications to be sent to the Editors, 30, Cookr mas Street, Leeds. No. 6. ] ; New Series. duly 1, 187¢ Price One Penny. Contents, as Page smallPox and State Medicine.............- 81 Onpimions ob Eminem Mem. s..57 " awe cles oec 82 Vaccination and smallPox ...........s000. 83 Society for be eam Compulsory WaACeMAHOD dicicinsc acs wsdee OOS TCC enor: 84 Horse, Cow, and Pig a DER COE oes 85 Vaccination Viewed Politically.............. 86 is Cialis OW StrCTIVieS = coats ecuersrele ciereje 6 0) arere 8 -enelare 87 HEAL CH s ONL ealllee Atte BCT OWN Gs sore lotehesore\ is vie) svovaserel Ze! #:":614) Le 88 SMG ISS AINA 4) <wyslls: sreclekevared: aerease sieiaveree aoe 90 PAC NAC ClIN ey KO MPA CALE .rayeya (c) ois aren sie sraveye 91 Lowering the Army Standard of Height.... 91 Vaccination in the United States .......... 92 eetimap. ati WiOOLWACH! Savior cis.cseeccies god nes 92 DAM OTS OLVACCMUALIONN yers(oricleyelsrcreteicions as 6 " 92 Maccmaors, read: Of BOOKS s\.sje104 01<.2.04as8 + 93 Prosecutions-Ayleshury, Barnsley, Chester- le-Street, Cambridge, Middleton, Preston 94 Vows bOMDeMEFAMGSOIME 225 55..405 wasiens vena ss 95 Me vaccination : Waite (0) BOati sec s-cess 95 ABC W some Ofe WemmSe BIL Girone: 3 aye) eyseoiers herecorese-e 5 96 LBhemB iy of iia Pease, MiP ses cicaecn acne an 96 News, &c.:-Sunderland, 83; Keighley, 85; The Peculiar People, 93; Leicester, 95. smallPox and State Medicine. Re-vaccination evidently affects the brain. This will account for the fury of the vaccinating writers. According to their own theory, how can vaccination protect a part of the body which has not been affected by it? From a number of phrenzied compositions in favour of compulsory vaccination we choose two specimens -from the London Lancet, and the Birmingham Morning News. The Lancet article opens with a lament that ''the plague of smallpox continues to rage. Even in London the mortality is still very shocking." There is something else *' very shocking," and that is-the blindness of the vaccinating doctors, who will not see what is palpable to laymen, namely-that vaccination propagates smallpox. In the words of the French correspondent of the 7imes-" Unvaccinated Paris is free from smallpox, while the disease rages In vaccinated London." In Dublin the mortality is said to be fearful, though a short time since it was declared that vaccination had '' stamped out" smallpox in Ireland. The writer asks -''Can anything more be done by the State or by the profession?' and he implores medical men to do all in their power to encourage vaccination and re-vaccination, adding a hint that they had better '' perform both of these operations thoroughly." This is followed by the avowal that the '' profession must take some blame to itself for not having vaccinated thoroughly." Why have they '"'scamped" their work? The reason given is ''the desire to please ignorant parents, by vaccinating in an imperfect way." We believe this to be a base and absurd charge against both parents and doctors. The truth is, that it 1s impossible for any doctor to guarantee that mischief shall not result from vaccination ; and it is equally impossible for any good to result from so vile a thing. Returning to the question of State medicine, the writer in the Lancet says :- Those who have been building up in their imaginations a great and beneficent system of State medicine under which the operations of the great causes of disease were to be controlled, must abate their hopefulness., The Anti-Vaceinator and {July 1, 1872. 'A oveat and beneficent system of State indeed! ''Great" it may be, but not good. Its influence is, in our opinion, only evil. Can that system be beneficent which endows disease-mongers, and pays and repays them for continually sowing corruption ? For, mark, they don't believe a bit in the protection of early and single vaccination; nor even wholly in any number of re-vaccinations. The words of the writer are- medicine "' Members of the medical profession, smallpox hospital nurses, and the moze intelligent section of the people who have, like, medical men, availed themselves of the protection of a second and third vaccination, move about almost untouched by it. A third vaccination is said to be ''almost"' protective !- And yet it must be admitted that the existing system of public vaccination has been sadly discredited and almost mocked by the experience of the present epidemic. Yes, those who mock nature's laws will alwavs find their practices '' discredited." A free and enlightened people will not tolerate this despotic system. Our course has been to invite private and public inquiry respecting the origin, nature, and effects of vaccination, and we should be delighted if our opponents would become '"'stumpers," and try to de "'immense good" by demonstrating the * advantages of vaccination tion and re-vaccination," as indicated in this elegant sentence :- Ignorant as the people are, and easily influenced by the perfectly irrational and unprincipled language of Anti-vaccination stumpers,' we believe that a few intelligent public teachers could demonstrate the advantages of vaccination and re-vaccination, and do immense good. ; There is little hope of such a plan being tried, because it is well known that those who study the subject, become converts to Anti-vaccination. All we ask is a fair field and no favour. Let those who believe in "the evidence that vaccination is effective in proportion to its quantity," vaccinate themselves every day if they choose. The conclusion of this outrageous article, together with a quotation from the Birmingham Morning News, advocating unwholesome compulsion, we append without comment ;-- Should re-vaceination be made compulsory ? This is a dificult question. give a negative answer to it. If it is right to compel primary vaccination, and if the virtue of vaccination tends to wear out, then it is impossible to deny that re+vaecination should be required. The liberty to have smallpox is so much prized that there would be many law-breakers, but these should not have any longer the sanction of law in neglecting a precaution so urgent and so splendidly efficient. Short of compelling re-vaccination, it would at any rate be worth while to consider whether the age for the operation should not be fixed earlier than at twelve. From the Birmingham Morning News :-- There is nothing for it but preparation for a wholesome compulsion on the subject. The Anti-vaccination League are quacks, ignorant, or fools. Every child not properly marked, is a walking bag of pestilence ; and every parent refusing to have his or her child vaccinated is a public enemy, and should be treated as such. A letter appeared a few days after in the | same paper from H. Pitman, who remarked- The writer of this strong language assumes that vaccination prevents smallpox. Experience proves the contrary. 'To enforce the practice is, therefore, unwholesome compulsion. Prof. F. W. Newman, who is a member of the Anti-compulsory Vaccination League, writes: -"To enact that a healthy person shall have a disease, lest hereafter he get a worse disease, 18 a form of despotism hard to parallel. sctpis Parents who become martyrs by resisting the law, deserve a svmpathy akin to those who are martyrs of religion." Opinions of Eminent Men. I desire deliberately and publicly to repeat, that I regard every child who dies of compulsory vaccination, now that its possible fatality is so well understood, to be murdered.-Prof. Ff. W. Newman. From official statistics I find that of 155 persons admitted at the smallpox Hospital in the parish of St. James', Piccadilly, 145 were vaccinated. At the Hampstead Hospital, up to the 1eth May, 1871, out of 2,975 admissiors 2,847 were vaccinated. In Marylebone, 92 per cent. of those attacked by smallpox were vaccinated. Can any one be found, after this, to contend that vaccination is a protection against smallpox ?-Sir T. C. Chambers, M.P. Jue = The Wisdom of the Serpent-When one of a family is attacked with smallpox, the cowpox doctor usually proposes to re-vaccinate the whole. If they escape smallpox, it is due to the revaccination ; if they do not escape, the smallpox must have been "incubating." Heads you lose; tails I win But it is very difficult to July 1, 1872.)  . 83 Vaccination and Smal!-Pex. The subjomed letter was sent to the Chairman of the Hampstead smallpox Hospital by Mr. T. Baker, hon. sec. of the Society for the Suppression of Compulsory Vaccination. Those of our readers who have influence with the newspapers, should send Mr. Baker's letter | for insertion. Such a communication will often obtain insertion when a letter to the editor would be rejected. South Sea House, Threadneedle-street, H.C. May 22, 1872. Sir,-The Superintendent of the Hampstead smallPox Hospital, in his recent report, lays great stress on the comparative safety of smallpox cases having several vaccination cicatrices. In the manipulation of figures it is well known to statisticians that without great care enormous fallacies may be introduced. This is especially the case in reference to small numbers; and whatever the numbers are, to make comparisons of real value the factors must be cqual. Thus, suppose a hundred smallpox cases treated in the hospital have one cicatrix and 50 of them die, or 50 per cent., and suppose one case only presents four cicatrices. If that patient recovers, it will give a proportion of 50 per cent. in favour of four marks, as compared with the hundred having a single mark. Butif he dies, equally a proportion of 50 per cent. the other way. Now, the superintendent does not favour us with the mumbers of his factors; and, therefore, to a statistician his deductions are useless, however they may serve the turn with the general public. I suppose, however, that-the factors being equal- the proportion of recoveries in smallpox cases presenting four vaccination cicatrices, were far greater than in cases having one mark. Those who understand this subject are aware that the incisions on the infant's arm, being in reasonable proximity, when the virus produces what men of science denominate a "fine arm," the pustules are very apt to become confluent, or, in common parlance, run into one another, leaving only one scar: whereas, when the vaccine does not "take well," the wounds remain separate, heal separately, and leave the original number of marks distinct. What is the common-sense deduction ? Simply that where there is greater power of resisting the poison, or when least injury is effected, there remains the greatest power to resist future morbific causes (¢.g., smallpox) when such present themselves. If there be any conclusion, therefore, to be drawn from this latest discovery, it is clearly adverse to the practice of vaccination, The Report states that of 1,248.cases unvaccinated, 61 per cent. died; whilst of 4,973 vaccinated cases only 11 per cent. died: but we are not told whether | the superintendent agrees with Mr. Marson that in | cases admitted in a contluent state, you cannot tell whether the patient had been vaccinated or not,* or with Mr. Simon, that 975 per cent. of the population in the metropolis are now protected by vaccination ;+ nor whether the subscribers to the theory above mentioned that a subject being strong enough successfully to resist one poison, may better resist another. With regard to the statement that "of cases of smallpox after successful re-vaccination there were but 8 out of 6,221," it may, and probably will, be read that out of 6,221 persons re-vaccinated, 'only 3 had smallpox: it really does mean, probably, that of 6,221 smallpox cases, 3 only had been re-vaccinated-a very different thing. It appears that the superintendent has witnessed little injury resulting from "successful re-vaccination,' but nothing is said about unsuccessful re-vaccination, such as in the case of the late Sir Culling Eardley, who died from the operation. Persons are sometimes heard gravely to affirm that they have been re-vaccinated, and have not had smallpox : the answer to which is, that for every one such, a thousand may be found who have not been re-vaccinated, and have not had smallpox. I beg, finally, to point out that, in spite of presumedly improved treatment, the total death-rate in your hospital being 19 and a fraction per cent. of the cases, equals that of the smallpox Hospital during the present century, as against six, eight, ten, twelve, and eighteen per cent. in the last century, according to the authorities.{ Also, to direct your attention to the recent discussion in reference to vaccination and smallpox, in the Dublin Medical Journal.-l have, &e. (Signed) T. Baker. Sunderland.-Correction.-I observe that there is an error in the paragraph on p. 63 of the last issue of the Anti-Vaccinator, &c., relating to the Sunderland Times. It was the issue of May Ist, containing the letter of Professor Newman, which the Sunderland Times noticed, not that of the 15th, containing my paper;'and this is evident from the fact (as stated in the paragraph in question) that the notice appeared in the Sunderland Times of May lith. J think that it would be well to correct the paragraph, for if credit is due to any one it is to Professor Newman, for opening the eyes of the Editor-a little way, at least. I have recommended the journal to several people here, and elsewhere, and [ trust that they will become subscribers to it. -Alfred J. Pearce. * Evidences before the Vaccination (House of Commons) Committee, 1871-Question 4323. + Ibid, Questions 8045-58, 319-6, 3255, + Jbid, Questions 1610-15,   (July 1, 1872. Society for Suppressing Compulsory Vaccination. Report presented at First Annual Meeting, 18th May, 1872. The year 1871 was pregnant with important occurrences bearing upon the movement for the Suppression of Compulsory Vaccination. Mainly at the instigation of Mr. R. B. Gibbs, who for many years had continued the active opposition commenced by his cousin, Mr. John Gibbs, to put down legislation at once un-English and unphilosophical, tyrannical and cruel, a committee of the House of Commons was appointed at the commenvement of the session, not for the purpose of inquiring into the whole subject of Vaccination, but into the operation of the Act (1867), and to report whether such Act should be amended, as "'it was felt desirable to remove the objections entertained by some people to Vaccination." It was, therefore, not surprising that the Committee refused to hear counsel, declined to receive much of the testimony offered adverse to vaccination, and neglected to obtain, as they might have done, either from home or foreign sources, full and impartial information. A report drawn up by the Medical Officers of the Vaccination Department, who had been themselves the chief witnesses in favour of Compulsory Vaccination, was consequently adopted by the Committee. The case made out by a mere handful of volunteers bearing witness to the evils of vaccination, however, was so strong, that a bill intended to ameliorate in some degree the compulsory powers was introduced by the Government, and carried in the House of Commons. Such intention was, nevertheless, frustrated in the House of Lords, by the Chairman of Committees, aided by Bishop Durnford and six other Peers, in the absence of real support by the Government. In the face of these proceedings the advent of the present session was regarded with peculiar interest ; when an irreparable blow to the cause was struck by the untimely decease, on the Ist of December last, of our excellent friend, Richard Butler Gibbs, while on his marriage-tour in Ireland. An interval of two months passed in anxious deliberation among supporters in different localities, the result being that, in the opinion of the majority, inasmuch as compulsory vaccination is essentially a layman's question, touching as it does the personal liberty of every parent throughout the British Empire, an Association should be organised on a more extended basis than any hitherto adopted, to be conducted by laymen as representative officers, with the countenance of as many medical men as possible on the general committee. Accordingly on the 8th February last a preliminary meeting of friends, summoned by Mr. Baker, Mr. Dornbusch, and Dr. Ellis, resolved themselves into - a committee; and, after communicating with numerous correspondents, at a general meeting held on the 21st February, was inaugurated the present Society for Suppressing Compulsory Vaccination, rules and regulations for which were then drawn up, and officers appointed. In accordance with the objects prescribed, communications have been opened with about 350 correspondents ; several placards and other papers of instruction have been printed with a view to general distribution; the honorary secretary has attended very successful public meetings in several towns, and is authorised to procecd anywhere for the like purpose, on a reasonable subscription being made to the society towards the expenses of the journey. At the instance of the society, Mr. Baker undertook the defence of Mr. George Hurry and his wife, charged at the Central Criminal Court with manslaughter, for not having procured medical advice for their children suffering from smallpox, which terminated in death. The result was an acquittal altogether on the serious charge imputed by the Coroner; and although counsel was unable to prevent a nominal verdict (against the husband only) for misdemeanour in " not calling in a doctor," Mr. Hurry was discharged at once without punishment; the point whether such be an offence in law being, on the application of Mr. Baker, reserved by the judge for decision by the Court of Criminal Appeal. An indignation meeting is at this moment being organised to be held at Woolwich, at which several members of this society are invited to attend. The re-issue of    , under the able management and editorship of Messrs. Pickering (of Leeds), and Pitman (of Manchester), has been hailed with much satisfaction ; and it is hoped that the paper will command an extensive circulation. A bill to limit the penalties under the Vaccination Acts has been introduced into the House of Commons by Mr. Pease, with whom the honorary secretary has had several interviews, as well as with other members of the Houses of Commons and Lords respectively, in reference to the subject. The second reading of this bill has been deferred till after Whitsuntide. About 150 petitions have been forwarded by the honorary secretary to Mr. Pease and others. It is indeed highly desirable that every individual opponent of Compulsory Vaccination should send up a separate petition, seeing that numbers of petitions are far more efficacious than numbers of signatures to fewer petitions. In view of the increasing smallpox mortality in places where Compulsory Vaccination has been most stringently carried into operation-e.g., Dublin at present three times greater in proportion than | pat, ee July 1, 1872.) 1871; Berlin eight times greater; Bridgewater (994 per cent. of population found vaccinated on a house- to-house inquiry) seven times greater than London during the first quarter of the present year, &c.- an inquiry has been addressed to the President of the Local Government Board, whether it is the intention of the Government to make it penal to vaccinate ? Liberal subscriptions to the funds have been contributed by the Countess de WNoailles, the President, and other supporters; and it is hoped that in view of extended practical operations, friends throughout the kingdom will also come forward to aid the society with the necessary sinews of war. It is much to be regretted that the means at command would not warrant the commencement of actions against magistrates, as suggested, who have exceeded the limits warranted by law and justice in their conviction of offenders against the Vaccination Acts, in such cases as those of Peter Hitchin and Charles Washington Nye. Steps have, however, been taken in several instances, with a view of obtaining the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench on manifestly illegal convictions by justices at Petty Sessions; and in some of these it is believed the persecution has been permanently stopped, while others are still engaging attention; but it cannot be denied that all legal proceedings in the Superior Conrts are expensive, even when confined to obtaining the opinion of the judges on cases stated by magistrates: and, therefore, seeing that the general public have not yet felt sufficiently stimulated in the cause of medical liberty to induce them to tender their subscriptions for united action in the common cause, it must be evident that in order that legal proceedings, other than defence of prosecutions at Petty Sessions, may be taken by the society when neccessary, more extensive support will be required from sympathisers with the oppressed throughout the kingdom. A balance-sheet of receipts and expenditure will be forwarded to any member, on application to the honorary secretary, South Sea House, Threadneedle. street, H.C. Other wars are toward death, but in this crusade the war is against death_-_J. J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D. 121 Reasons why we Object to Vaccination. - This is the title of a pamphlet compiled by Mr. J. Wilcockson, of 104, Woodward-street, Manchester, and printed for gratuitous circulation. The author will send copies to any person on receiving stamps to pay postage. Keighley.-1 expect to be brought before the magistrates this week. I have sold three dozen of each number of the Anti-Vaccinator. 'There are one or two in Keighley who will go to prison before they will have their children vaccinated. -S. Billows.  . 85 Horse, Cow, and Pig' Lymph. Dr. Jenner used matter from these three sources indiscriminately. He says in his correspondence :-''I have been constantly equinating for some months." He also says- ''T have been using equine virus from arm to arm for these two months, without the smallest deviation in the appearance of the pustules from those produced by the vaccine." He ''inoculated his son Edward with swine-pox." (Life. of Jenner, 1. .388, &c.) ' Dr: 'Seaton says-''I believe a great deal of the lymph now in use 'in the National Vaccine Establishment, is the lymph which was originally supphed by Jenner." Dr. Jenner says he supphed that estabishment with equine matter. (Life, u. 226.) Mr. Douglas, the Officer of Health for Sunderland, says-''The lymph from the vesicle of the horsepox , when inoculated into the human system, protects from smallpox in the same way as cowpox." But perhaps Messrs. Jenner, Douglas, and the National Vaccine Establishment are all at fault together, for we read in a letter from the Local Government Board, dated May 3 last, signed by Mr. J. Simon, directed to Mr. H. Nuttall, of Leicester, and published in the local papers -''As regards the question of the so-called animal vaccination, the Local Government Board have not thought it advisable to recommend that such vaccination should be practised." This is a most unexpected announcement. What will Mr. Marson say to it ?-Mr. Marson (and his heifers) who, in his evidence of last year, says-''I do not use Jenner's lymph now," having two other sources-one from a cow, and one from a heifer. Vaccina is vacillating. Failure makes her furious. Her eyeballs glare. 'Tortured by the taunts of her unanswerable opponents, she brandishes aloft the fatal knife; and, like Mithras, prepares to immolate the once-loyed pte syeg~ 86   Vaccination Viewed Politically. Letter from Professor FT. W. Newman. [The following letter, from Professor Newman, has been extensively circulated as a tract. Being out of print, we have thought it well to republish so convinecing a letter in the new series of the Anti-vaccinator. |, Dear Mr. Pitman,-You call my attention to an article in the Lancet, commenting on a private letter of mine to you, which you have thought fit to publish. You kindly desire to printsome reply from me. I really think I may claim that you or other Anti-vaccinators will make the reply, which is not at all difficult. I have no taste for detailed controversy, especially with an anonymous opponent, and with a medical man on a medical topic. But I regard the political side of the question as the primary. It is not developed in that letter-which I never intended for the public; but I will now enter upon it somewhat more fully. It does not rest with Parhament to enact how a disease shall be treated. If a Bill were proposed to enforce that everyone who is seized with apoplexy shall be bled, the Lancet would probably be foremost in outcry. I should expect it to propound that Parliament is no authority in medicine; that to protect us from dangerous treatment by ignorant pretenders, Parliament enacts medical degrees as mere tests | of knowledge, but it must not dictate to those who have displayed their knowledge by gaining the degree. Nor is it to the purpose to say that Parliament took advice of physicians before it legislated, Some 30 or 40 years ago, when homceopaths first discussed bleeding for apoplexy and fever, the disapproval of their conduct by the orthodox medical faculty was so universal and so vehement, that Parliament might easily have got medical warrant to enforce bleeding. Nay, 100 years ago physicians were zealous for inoculation. My father was with difficulty saved from it by the sturdy refusal of his mother, who said (as she told me)-" If God send smallpox on my child, I must bear it; but never will I consent to give it to him on purpose: how can anyone know what would come of it?" [July 1, 1872. ----_-_-- At that time Parliament might have been advised by educated and learned physicians to make inoculation compulsory; and 1 make no doubt those physicians spoke as dogmatically to my grandmother in favour of it, as any can now speak of vaccination: yet, by the advice of physicians, inoculation is now made penal! It is certainly possible that by the advice of physicians vaccination also will hereafter be made penal. Medicine is a changing and (let us hope) progressive Art: it has no pretensions to Science, or to have any fixedness at all. The Editor of the Lancet has probably read the article in the Quarterly Review of April, 1869, entitled ''The Aims of Modern Medicine." It isa storehouse of fact detailed for those who are too young to remember what it narrates of unanimous medical error, pernicious on the hugest scale. Medicine cannot improve, unless the younger and fresher minds among physicians are left perfectly free to deviate from the routine of theirelders. Nothing can justify Pariament in enacting a medical creed, or enforcing any special medical procedures. Butif physicians must have hands unfettered, have patients no right to choose their physician -no right to repudiate treatment which they think quackery? We all ought to be revaccinated periodically, according to the Lancet. Does, then, Parliament dare to enact such a thing' It does not; else 1 might be taken by force and vaccinated to-morrow. And if I[ understand the argument for compulsory vaccination, it cannot nghtly stop short of this. I may be told that extreme danger requires extreme remedies. Well-I will put really extreme cases. In an age and eountry of barbarism, I am seized with the plague, or with a highly-infectious leprosy. If I have the plague, I am to be shot dead with arrows, and mould is to be heaped over where Ilie. If I have the leprosy, [am to be hunted into solitude, and there live, if Ican. The law is hard, yet I might accept my fate without murmuring. One who is dangerous to society, whether from contagion or from mania, cannot retain ordinary social rights. Better for me to die outright than infect my kind nurses, for the miserable chance of lingering. To put me to death for plague is sharp law, no doubt; but the legislator' would at least know that a pestilential body,.once well covered with earth, does no further harm, so that despotism effects its end:-at least it stops contagion. I should feel that I died for my country's good, But if he enacted that I should be bled, or should have the sore places cut out, or that ee ew eS oe? Ee ee ee - July 1, 1872.)  . 87 poison should be infused into my veins, he could neyer be sure that the public gained any benefit from his cruelties. A far more overwhelming proof is needed by the legislator than so very shifting a thing as medical advice. And here it is advice from one country only in all the world, and that where men peculiarly experienced in vaccination condemn it. One who carries disease with him is ostensibly dangerous. This-and this only- justifies legislation against him. But when a man or child is ostensibly healthy, no case is made out for legislation at all. To enact that a healthy person shall have a disease lest hereafter he get a worse disease, is a form of despotism hard to parallel; and, what is peculiarly disgraceful, it is directed against innocent infants alone, because they are helpless -it does not dare to attack usadults. This fact justly arouses parents to indignation. Let Parliament enact that every M.P. shall be at once vaccinated, and that it shall be done from arm-to-arm among them, every four or five years, as the doctors may prefer, if they will enact such things concerning children. 'The law now, says to a parent-'' We are alarmed to see that your child has no disease. (for the public good) it must have, with the chance of other hideous diseases: submit, or else make yourself a criminal, have your hair cropped, and dress in prison garb." Such legislation imphes that Parliament is a Medical Pope, and would justify no end of monstrous violations of sacred personal right. The Lancet '' begs respectfully to tell me" that in the matter of '' vaceine lymph," ''the State (') and private practitioners take great care.' Is this very comforting -very reassuring-to one who has read [ra Connell's frightful case? I have a paper before me- reprinted from the Lancet of November 16, 1861-which contains a detailed account of 46 children in Piedmont being infected with loathsome disease-soon fatal to some of them- from receiving the lymph (called vaccine !) out of the arm of one child called (and supposed to be) healthy. As a surgeon cannot be omniscient, he cannot know the diseases hidden in a particular child; he is not to blame for not knowing; but this is precisely the reason why Parhament ought much rather to forbid than to enforce the yaccinating of one child from another. It makes the enforcement so indefensible, that one is unwilling to affix the right epithet. But even if cows would kindly get cowpox - for our conyenience, so that each child might cowpox | | have the disease direct from the cow, even so it would be blind tyranny for the law to say toa parent-'' You shall not keep your child in perfect health: that is too dangerous a course." When to this the parent replies by defiance of the law, and is treated as a criminal, the law- makers are (in my opinion) the real criminals before God and man. Parents who become martyrs by resisting the law, deserve a sympathy akin to those who are martyrs of religion.-Truly yours, i. WE cans Medical Obstructives. (From the Leicester Free Piess, May 18, 1872.) One would have supposed that the prevalence of the smallpox epidemic would have led to a most stringent investigation into the sanitary condition of the courts and streets where the cases occurred, and that no effort would be spared in order, if possible, to restrict the area of the disease. It might have also been thought a fitting time to ascertain the proportion of the vaccinated to the unvaccinated amongst those who have suffered, or are suffering, from this malady; while the gentlemen to whom we should naturally have looked for advice in such an emergency are the medical' men of the town. But the fact is, that it is with the utmost difficulty the Board of Health is able to get any information touching the disease, beyond the black roll of deaths which is made up from the registrar's returns week by week. 'The arguments adduced by some members of the profession are, that if would be a breach of honour to give up particulars of cases of smallpox which they are attending ; that it would probably injure the trade of persons in whose houses these cases occur; and that were they to give the required information no good would come of it, as they always order everything to be done that is essential to the safety of the familiesin which the disease appears. Granting that some force might attach to these objections, the medical men were asked to send in a return simply of the mwmber of cases of smallpox they were attending, so that if possible the extent of the epidemic might be ascertained. But even this trifling request has been refused by two-thirds of the medical men ; and it really looks as though these gentlemen, who thus treat the Board of Health with contempt, care for nothing but the success of their "'trade''-although business with them is brisk at the expense of human suffering. This is not a question to be pooh-poohed, and made light of: it 18 a matter of life and death, involving the peace and comfort of hundreds of families. Itis no time to stand upon professional etiquette when people are dying daily from one cf the worst forms of disease to which human nature is subject. 88 :   the Antt-Gacetvrator. ->- July 1st, 1872. In England and Wales alone there are five hundred thousand human beings, as fond of life | as we are, who perish every year. Two hundred and fifty thousand of these, ere life has well begun, die before their tenth year. One hundred thousand, and some thousands more, quit this lower world with their missions unfulfilled, and before they have seen their second summer. And but thirty thousand, out of all this army of five hundred thousand persons, are destined to reach that goal which many strive for, and to have it recorded of them that they died of ''old age." (c)''Can these things be?" Are we transcribing a paragraph out of '' Poe's Tales of Mystery and Imagination"? Is the above a quotation from a missing chapter of some such work as the '' Arabian Nights?" Would that it were a dream! Sad to say, upon the table there lies a blue-backed book-the Registrar- General's Report-and the facts and figures referred to are all to be found inside. Sad, did we say?-terribly sad! In this calm, clear midnight hour, with no sound around save that of the distant bell chiming one, two,-yet as we ask the question ''How is it?'' we seem to hear an echo from the Spirit-land, and it is as though five hundred thousand muffled tongues ~ echoed the inquiry '' How is it?" Where is the answer ? Who can open the seven seals of this book, and say why a death-rate so fearful ~ should obtain amongst us? Five hundred thousand deaths per annum, and out of that number only thirty thousand (not quite 17 per cent.) ever reach ''old age." Amidst such figures as these one is bewildered, and the search for facts or circumstances to account for this dreadful mortality seems as fruitless as seeking for fossiliferous remains in the lowest strata of metamorphic rocks. One says-'' Sir, think of the 'competition in the race of life, and how men wear themselves out, [July 1, 1872. and become old before half their days are spent." numbers are engaged in trades and businesses which necessarily limit the duration of life ; think of the poor shirt makers and milliners, with their everlasting 'stitch, stitch, and see | them slip off the stage to swell the death rate in' pneumonia'; think of the thousands who toil in coal and other mines, where the light of day cannot penetrate; and of those, too, who labour in badly-ventilated workshops, in the steel, iron, flax, and like occupations." Yes, we think of all this. A third answers-'' See the thousands who _rush to certain ruin, who spend their nights in drunkenness and debauchery, and their days in idleness; who neglect their homes, and whose children are left to perish for lack of food." As eager as any of the foregoing, a fourth makes reply-'"' See the myriads of half-starved ill-clad youths who throng the path of destruction, and infest the purlieus of our towns and cities, and who, after years of indulgence in crime, find a lodgment in reformatories, gaols, lunatic asylums, or workhouses, and who supply the ranks of those who end their days by acts of violence, murder, and suicide." Yes, we take note of all these, too. Pleased with the burden of his prophecy, a fifth puts the query-''See how many die when trade is depressed; others in times of scarcity, when the earth does not yield her increase, and when whole districts are made to feel the pinch of poverty ; others, again, have to suffer hunger and privation when nation meets nation on the battle-field, and the bread-winners of the land are slain by thousands at a time, leaving their widows and children to the mercy of circumstances they are ill prepared to encounter." Yes, all this is jotted down. Another, the sixth, asks-'"See the multitudes of people who live in the courts and alleys, the narrow streets and the cul de sac, where the foetid air and the stagnant water are busy breeding fever; see the overcrowded houses, without furniture or fire, and charged with the pestilential vapours from the untrapped sink, | and from middens close to the door, whose very _ Another suggests-Why, reflect what - P 4 Suly 1, 1872.) exhalations smell of typhus, and where the unhealthy conditions altogether are such that, as Dr. Farr has put it, the first question is not 'Can these men think?' but 'Can these men live?' And have you included in the reckoning the mortality from causes like these Yes, 'not one has escaped ourattention. The seventh and last, with a sad smile playing upon his face, 'inquires-'' Has your observation taken in the prattling litile ones who perish of neglect, bad nursing, and improper food, whose mothers leave them deprived of their natural sustenance all the day; ant, perhaps, soothed by opiates or cordials, are lef, to the care of children who ought to be watthed themselves? Have you seen their cherubfaces who morning and night are marched off yand-in-hand with death, many from causes Wiich are, and others which are not, preventible-infantile diseases, the fatal nature of which sickens the heart to read?" Yes-we his recorded every ill which has been suggested; but there is a vacuum 'yet-a space tlat is unoccupied and unexplained. The mind \stens upon the fact that of all these five hundré thousand, one-half | of them never reach theirtenth year. This dreadful mortality at so ear an age indicates that there must be some caus at work which contributes its quota to swell thieyer-increasing death-rate. 992) We know full well what is tl cause. As clearly as Belteshazzar saw thehand which wrote his doom on the wall, so clarly do -we see over this excessive infantile métality the inscription-' Vaccination!"" In fret of the porch of every vaccination station inthe land should be written the ghostly warnin, which Dante cut in deepest lines over the gtes of Hades-'' Abandon hope, ye who enter lye! " Not one single child that is vaccinated, wh\her at public stations or private houses, but Wat receives a virus into its veins which God ne\; intended should get there, either in the cour, | of nature by disobedience of her laws, or b) artificial means as in vaccination-a rite which, the more we think upon it, the more do we hold it in abhorrence. Publre *Fliealth Journal. 89 '' Abandon hope?" Aye, there is abundant reason. Invyaccinated into the body of that child is one of seven demons, worse than that against which it is a fancied charm, and one that will sooner or later compass its destruction. The ghouls of fell diseases attend upon the lancet to give them entrance into a glorious tabernacle the inside of which they should never see. No sane man can henceforth speak of vaccination as a " protective: " instead of being a '' protective,' it is a 'provocative,' and diseases of every description wait upon the operation. '* Abandon hope?" And so we should if we did not know that Truth is never conquered. Errors in practice, whether in the realms of philosophy, religion, science, or art, when they are upheld and protected by an Act of Parliament, are always the most formidable and die the hardest death. The blood-poisoner (who envies him the best title he deserves ?) will not surrender his practice and _ his emoluments until everybody else is convinced ; -he will be the last man to quit the sinking ship. We shall never forget the thrill of wonder which seized us on the first occasion of beholding the circulation of the blood, by the aid of the microscope. How grateful we felt to the poor frog for letting us see that marvellous fluid, with its red and white corpuscles, as it coursed through the veins! JTiven then, some ten or fifteen years ago, we remember putting the question-'"' Is this the fiuid with which the vaccinator dares to meddle, and into which he does not hesitate to infuse a morbid poison ?"' It is sad to reflect that in England there can be found a surgeon or physician who, by any process of reasoning, can bring himself to believe that the act of vaccination 1s that of a responsible and rational being. '' Take off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground." Not one hair of the head canst thou make white or black. Not a single corpuscle of all the myriad host, in artery or vein, will alter its conformation at thy bidding. The bullet hurtling through the air falls to the ground, and in falling alters the dynamic conditions of the earth. The useful \properties of a piece of iron are destroyed by mpinging for a moment upon the surface of a 90   magnet. So in vaccination-the blood, which is the life, receives a taint which affects the whole mass; and who can be surprised if death is the result? If death should not ensue, there yet remains a corrupt principle, which may thenceforth attract infection from whatever channel it is presented, The verdict of every inteligent mind which reflects calmly and seriously upon this subject, will be this-Vaccinatioa and Manslaughter are convertible terms. Inoculation is branded '' Felony." Vaccination must henceforth walk the earth, like anothe: Cain, with '"'murder" imprinted on its brow-a child- slayer without a rival. The Egyptians, at their banquets, in orJloer to remind each guest of his mortality,. paraded aout the room the figure of a dead body, placed in a coffin, and at intervals the servitor uttered the warning-'' Behold the image of what yourselves will be; eat and drink, therefore, and be happy." In our own times, however, there is small occasion for such remembrancers, inasmuch as the Macaber Dance of Death is a scene too often witnessed to escape the memory for many days together. What a theme for another Holbein is to be found in the mortality raturns in any given year! The poet and the painter have =e with each other in the represontations of a power whose dominion 1s supreme over vouth and age, in all countries and climes, be the ranks and conditions of men what they may. There are, however, neither allegorical figures, nor poetical display, m the silent record of the death-rate. Every unit, from the first to the last, in the grand total of five hundred thousand deaths during the year, really means the passing away of a human being the body to the grave, the soul to Him who gave it. Far removed from the pencil of Apelles, or the pen "Tt is the Law." To the Editor of the Middleton Albion. Sir,-Persecutors have not unfrequently sought to justify their ungodly and inhuman conduct by saying that "It is thelaw."" They enlarge upon the text after this fashion-' You know people ought to obey the law. We have to do many things that are unpleasant. As magistrates, we are obliged to enforce of Milton, dreamland and shadows things of | the past, we spend our days among the sterner realities which encompass the dying and the dead. Thousands of those who threng our streets perish for lack of knowledge how to live; others sink in the middle of the stream, the victims of their own folly ; and myriads of children, from age to age, sacrificed at the shrine of an unholy rite, are hurried out of existence, leaving behind them nothing but sad memorie | and unavailing regrets. he law. If we did not punish people for breaking the law, there would be no living. It is a duty to obey the powers that be." very good man would cheerfully live in accordance with good laws. On ths point there can be no question. But when a Parliamentary law conflicts with a Divine Jaw-when the powers that be are opposed to the divine yowers of truth and justice-what then ? When Ciristian apostles were commanded by rulers and migistrates to preach no more in the name of Jesus Clrist, did they obey God or man? Should we have had "the noble army withstood? 'There is bu one way of answering these questions. What.then, is the duty of good parents when commandd to submit their children to the fearful risks of yccination, which is nothing else than blood-poisning? Should they obey? They should obey God only, and leave the consequences to Hm. But are not magistrates bound to administ¢ even bad laws? Certainly not. God alone shouldve their God. Sir Clarke J ervoise, bart., will not administer the vaccination laws. A metropolitan megistrate said a parent was the best judge whethe his child was fit or not to. be vaccinated, ar refused to convict. Irish magistrates have frequetly imposed a fine of only a penny. Dr. Bakewll stated before the Parliamentary Vaccinatio Committee, ' that in Trinidad magistrates would no punish except by the smallest fine, and that ever sort of loophole was allowed, so that one convict could only be got out of a dozen clear cages.' But to raise another issue-What must be said 'hen magistrates habitually break the Smoke Actor foul the water, &. &., creating. insanitary covitions which breed smallpox and other diseases ? at yet, professing to be Christians and Liberals, ypeatedly punish any good man for refusing to llow a disease to be given to his healthy child. Let every one honestly answer the question according to the light that is in him. I have the honour to be, your obedient servant, Wn. Hume-Rothery. June 11, 1872, [July 1, 1872. of martyrs," if wickednes in power had not been _ t=.2,e"% 4 ' ,. } a July 1, 1872.)  . Qi @| Anti-vaccination Placard. | the all herewith sent is a copy of similar | ones which are extensively posted on the walls of our town, by some friend evidently very favourable to our movement. My only regret | is, that they do not bear the signature of the gentleman, Josiah Thomas, M.D. Neweastle-on-Tyne. | Copy of Placard. | "To the Fathers, Mothers, Guardians of Children, and Inhabitants generally of Newcastle-upon-Tyne and surrounding District. Beilow Countrymen and Countrywomen, - The cloven hoof of Medical Despotism under Governinent authority is again showing itself. The walls ure covered with placards calling upon you to vaccinate | your children, and poison the pure blood of your | healthy and innocent little ones. Let those in authority understand that you will no longer passively submit to this odious and tyrannical law; that although you have long been | hoodwinked and deceived in this mitter, your eyes are now opened; and that you protest, in the name of Free England, against a law so unjust and unconstitutional, and against a practice now proved ito be a delusion and a curse. You will find that 'most people have not taken the trouble to investigate 'this question; but blindly accept the opinion of the 'majority in the medical profession, who have a pecuniary interest in its support. Ask them how it happens that 85 per cent. of ismallpox patients in the London Hospitals hid been 'successfully vaccinated." Ask them how it happens that in Berlin-the capiital of a country that for a long period hs carried jout compulsory vaccination with a rigour happily impossible in this country-the deaths from small jpox in the epidemic of last winter were five times more numerous in proportion to population, than the deaths from the same cause in London in the last fearful epidemic. Ask them to explain the fact, proved by Fivnch official statistics, that the mortality from fevers has been six times greater in the vaccinated than in the unvaccinated departments. Ask them to explain ithe fearful increase of consumption and infant mortality. Remind them that on the authority of Dr. Bakewell, Vaccinator-General, and Medical Officer of | Health ; of Dr. Hutchinson, M.R.C.S., Surgeon to vhe London Ophthalmic and Skin Discase Hospital ; of Dr. Collins, a vaccinator of 20 years' experience ; of the Lancet itself, and other authorities they cannot and dare not impeach-that Scrofula, Syphilis, Mr ysipelas, Ulcers, Leprosy, and other diseases, have been communicated .by vaccination in a fearful number of cases, and when every care had been taken that the lymph should be pure. Pure lymph, indeed! the very name is a lie! It is at its best but rottenness; and the whole system that compels this monstrous violation of sanitary law must arouse, and is arousing, the irresistible protest of a people who remember the shameful history of inoculation, and the deaths by wholesale, in a day gone by, from cruel blood-lettings and immoderate lrugeing. It is for you, fathers, mothers, guardians of innocent and helpless children, friends of truth and of freedom, to arise as one man, and protest by word and deed against this inhuman, this tyrannical, this detestable law. An Englshman Lowering the Army Standard of Height. To the Iditors of the Anti-Vaceinator. Gentlemen,+~-I have endeavoured, but have not succeeded, in obtaining the information how far the standard height of recruits for the army has been lowered since 1810 or 1812. I have a strong impression that the height to which they were limited during those years was 5 feet 8 inches, and that it has been reduced two or three times until it has been lowered to 65 feet 4 inches in the present day,-a rather strong proof that the race is getting less, notwithstanding all our sanitary improvements and the boasted discoveries in medical science included. In this matter I feel disposed to form my own opinion, and hold that ocular demonstration is the most reliable-that to see is to believe; and I fail to see at the present day any regiments or troops that can compare with the Scotch Greys, with their horses, that passed through the country in the years above mentioned, and I do not expect "to look upon their like again." My object in writing is to solicit your opinion as to whether vaccination has anything to do with deterioration and the dwarfing of ourrace. Causes, as the lawyers say, produce effects, and I cannot but conclude that this subject is worthy of the attention and careful consideration of Mr. Cardwell. I am decidedly of opinion that men are not so strong, rubust, or high in stature on the average, as they were some sixty years ago, and hence the great and almost universal outcry for shorter hours, less work, and more wages. Inquirer. Lecture on Vaccination.-The lecture delivered in the Corn Exchange, Preston, under the title of "Vaccination alias Infanticide,' by the Rev. W. Hume-Rothery, has been reprinted from thé Preston Guardian, as an 8-page tract, and may be obtained from Mr. Edward Foster, Friargate, Preston, 92   (July 1, 1872. Vaccination in the United States. George Brunswick, who has returned from a tour in the United States, writes :- Vaccination is not compulsory in America, though no thanks to the Government, for Americans believe more in it than the English; but the great extent of territory makes it impracticable. one valiant champion of personal purity, Donald Kennedy, of Roxburg, Mass. An extract from his work on skin diseases will be read with pleasure by our friends throughout Great Britain :- I, however, found '"'T have seen so much humour from impure matter used in vaccination, that I am far from considering it so great a blessing to mankind as some do. I speak from actual and practical experience-it is the cause of more bad humours than all and everything put together. If my pen were eloquent, that I could describe to you the cases of vaccinated humours that I eured, the weeks and months and years they were suffering, it would make your heart ache; and, what is worst of all, through gross carelessness. '"'Took at the system of vaccination in Boston-it is helter-skelter, first come first served; and no doubt every other large city is cqually bad. In the name of God, and love to your children, never. have them vaccinated with matter that comes from any large city: question your physician closely where the matter came from. Duty to your child demands that you use every care that the poison be pure. Whatever the nature of it is, is as yet past finding out; but that it is a poison is past all argument. For instance-what a change the whole system undergoes from the quantity impregnated ! The quantity is hardly enough for a mosquito to carry on its bill; yet see what a wonderful change the whole system undergoes while the poison is going round the vitals: it is in every sense of the word worse than th: poison of the rattlesnake-if you get over that, it leaves no bad effect after it; but not so with vaccination. No matter how careful parents are of the health of their children; wholesome food, aired chambers, washing and scrubbing them every Saturday night-which are all very good, and to be highly commended as a Christian duty-yet one minim carried on the point of a quill- pen spoils all, as the point of a quill does in more ways than in vaccination. Perhaps you will say I bear too hard on a theory which has been lauded to the sky by physicians of every nation. Perhaps I do. Perhaps you do not believe a word of what I say. I do not care the toss-up of a cent whether you do or not." God never made His work for man to mend.- Dryden. Meeting at Woolwich. 'Abridged from the Woolwich Gazette, June 1.) 9 The 'Peculiar People'? have brought another peculiar class down to Woolwich, who convened a meeting for Monday evening, in the lecture hall, to protest against the imprisonment of Mr. Hurry. The Rev. Thomas Tuffield being unable to preside, sent a letter, expressing his opinion that vaccination was a great evil, and one which he believed would, before many generations passed, be regarded as having belonged to an unenlightened age.-Mr. Geo. Dornbusch, who was requested to take the chair, spoke of the subject which had called them together as one of vital importance to the lberties of the people, and to the general welfare of the community.-Mr. Thomas Baker, barrister, moved a resolution protesting against the act of Mr. Carttar in holding an inquest on the child of Cecilia Hurry, who had died of natural smallpox; and against the verdict of '" Manslaughter' returned against the father, as also the coroner's refusal to accept bail ; and calling upon the people to petition against the iniquitous compulsory vaccination laws.-The meeting was addressed by Mr. Emery, Mr. J. Stephens, Mr. Swindells, Mr. Smee, and' Mr. J. R. Taylor, who exposed the injustice and injuriousness of vaccination, and pointed to sanitary measures as the true preventive of smallpox. It was resolved to call the attention of 'the borough members, Mr. Gladstone and Sir David Solomans, to the persecution of the Peculiar People ; and a petition was agreed to against compulsory vaccination. Dangers of Vaccination. (From the Leigh Times, June 4.) Sir,-In reply to the question of your correspondent, "'Inkle," allow me to say, that I have many sad proofs that vaccination does kill; and worse still, that it imparts the most dreadful hereditary diseases. Dr. Whitehead, of Manchester, has published the painful but honest confession that he was the cause of conveying the venereal disease by means of vaccination. Before being vaccinated the child | was healthy ; it died when four and-a-half months old, of constitutional syphilis. And Dr. Whitehead adds that the child's mother became infected through the nipples, when suckling her poisoned child, and she died at the age of 38, "about three years after the invasion of the mischief occasioned by vaccination.' Dr. Whitehead says he has notes of nine similar cases. Surely one such case should make parents pause before running the risk of imparting fearful diseases by the useless and hurtful practice of blood-poisoning, miscalled '" vaccination." Henry Pitman. Manchester. In the same paper, a writer under the signature of "Philo" gave a longer affirmative answer to the question "Does vaccination ever kill?" | Cases were cited in which death was certified to have been caused by vaccination. : x July 1, 1872.]  . Vaccinators' Dread of Books. In the Levcester Journal of May 24, the following advertisement appears :- Free Library.-Owing to the prevalence of smallpox , it is requested that all persons at whose dwellinghouse the disease exists, will refrain from borrowing books from the library for the present; and that in | in the efficacy of vaccination." any house where the disease may appear, the the | | letters by Henry Pitman and "Philo" against borrowers will at once send their books to disinfectant office, Old Cattle Market, Horsefair- street, instead of to the library. By order of the Committec, Hdward C. Lings, May 22, 1872. Librarian. We are sometimes pressed by the advocates of the germ theory with the argument from analogy. With due deference to learned professors, analogy is not argument, but illustration of argument. Be this as it may, in the above case the argument from analogy 1s perfect. Controversial works in favour of Catholicism or Protestantism are invariably admitted by opponents to possess the power of infecting the minds of youthful members of the opposite communion ; and the sensational novel is generally supposed to contain germs of similar contagious power. As books are thus avowedly admitted to be infectious to susceptible miids, we are not surprised to find that they are supposed by vigilant vaccinators to be equally dangerous to susceptible bodies. And we may remark of this novel and unexpected danger latent in literature ( borrowing the-words which Professor Huxley apphes to the germ theory), that 'it is a perfectly tenable hypothesis, one which in the present state of medicine ought to be absolutely exhausted and shown not to be true, until we take to others which have less analogy in their favour.' This dictum must be guarded and circumscribed by another which occurs in the Lay Sermons of the same professor. The sole ground on which any statement has a right to be believed, is the impossibility of | refuting it. The knowledge of the human race is comprised unfavourable to belief in the vaccine dogma: no oven, therefore, can be too hot to disinfect them. The following occurs in the '' Lay Sermons" :-'' No human being can arbitrarily dominate over another, without grievous damage to his own nature." in books: sthe study of books is | | child vaccinated. | field to the letters of Anti-vaccinators. he WBress. Ce el et cd et Det tah tated SL ein De hein et ails Detail Saints wet eget ee of Mae te ea et May see ey of tay The Leeds Express (June 5) reprints a portion of Councillor Pickering's Letter to Mr. Scattergood, with this remark-'' Mr. Pickering's letter is very vigorous and forcible. It is clear that he has strong reasons for the faith that 1s in him, and his disbelief The Leigh Times has given insertion to several vaccination, showing that it is a dangerous delusion, and a certain propagator of disease. The Preston Chronicle continues to give a fair In its issue for June 15, we notice communications exposing the vaccination delusion, from Mr. Edward Foster and | the Rev. W. Hume-Rothery; also a proposal to raise a fund to reimburse Mr. Foster's outlay in defending the right of parents to protect their children from medical impurity. The Peculiar People'? Again.-At the Lambeth Police Court, on Thursday, William George Foster appeared to a summons for unlawfully neglecting to have his child vaccinated within three months after birth. Evidence showed that upon being spoken to on the subject by the parochial authorities, the defendant said he did not believe the law compelled him to have his child vaccinated. He afterwards added that he was one of the "Peculiar People," and that the child had never had medical aid, even at birth, and should not be vaccinated.-Mr. Chance: What have you to say, defendant ?-Defendant: It is against what I believe to be in the Bible. I pray to the Lord to preserve the sick, and do not think I require other aid.-Mr. Chance: Do you not think you should take some measures to preserve life ? -Defendant : No, I do not. In the epistle of James it says- '"'If any is sick among you, let him call together the elders of the Church, and let them pray over him, and the prayer of faith shall save the sick."' -Mr. Chance: The Bible teaches you to provide whit is necessary in case of sickness. I cannot argue the subject with you, but in this case you must obey the law.-Defendant: It is against my conscience. I go to the Word of God, which says His eye is watching over us. Our people do not go to doctors in sickness.-Mr. Chance: Would you take out a tooth if it ached ?-Defendant: I never required it.-Mr. Chance: You must have your Are you willing to have it done, or shall I impose a penalty ?-Defendant: I will allow the child to be vaccinated.-Mr. Chance: Then I shall only fine you half-a-crown and costs.- Defendant paid the money and left the court, giving his promise that the doctor should be allowed to vaccinate the child.   [July 1, 1872. Vaccination Prosecutions. Aylesbury. ° Mr. J. Putnam, of Tring, was charged by Mr. Jones, releving-officer for the Union, with neglecting an order of two magistrates to have his children, Edward, Arthur, and Alice, vaccinated. There were three summonses.-Mr., T. Baker, barrister-at-law, appeared for the defence, and ably contended that as Mr. Putnam had received sixteen summonses before, and had been fined, it was not just nor reasonable that he should be prosecuted as he was. He had lost a fine healthy girl solely through vaccination, and he could not risk the loss of his other children. A man might go on persecuting his neighbour until he had ruined him; but after all, they had no power to compel vaccination. There was diversity of opinion as to the benefits of vaccination in any case; andthe hon. member for Darlington, Mr. Pease, had a measure before the Parliament to limit the penalty. The medical profession did not profess that vaccination in childhood was sufficient, but at the age of puberty it" had again to be imposed, and again after that. Only that day, as he left London, he was informed that Mr. Ellis, the medical officer for St. Patcras, was dying of re-vaccination. He had had the honour of speaking to Mr. Stansfeld, the minister, who said it was in the discretion of the magistrates to dismiss such cases as this, and the hon. gentleman said he should not see fit to prosecute a man for the second offence. On the authority of a House of Commons Committee, he said that in the vaccination of 13 adults, from an apparently healthy arm, 11 of them, before healthy, had syphilis.-Mr. Hadden : That may be true. but you don't expect us to believe it on your simple statement.-Mr. Baker : You can see for yourself; it isin the bluebook. If they read what the Registrar-General stated every week, they would know that in Dublin, where vaccination was almost universal, smallpox was six times worse than it was in London. So he might refer to Scotland and Berlin. In Berlin, one of the best-vaccinated places, the death-rate from smallpox was greater than elsewhere. Mr. Baker maintained that they had no power to make an order unless the children were produced, and proof given that they had not been vaccinated, and then there was a penalty of 20/- and that only; that was the law, and if departed from, law and justice were violated.-The Chairman said they had a decided opinion on these cases. There would be a penalty of £1, and 10/- costs, in each case, making in all £4. 10s., and as long as the Act was in force they should continue to inflict the same penalty and costs.--'I'wo similar cases were then proceeded with. Mr. H. Stevens and the Rey. H. Bradford, were ordered to pay similar penalties, Mr. Stevens for two children unvaccinated, and Mr. Bradford for one.-Mr. Bradford did not appear, and neither of the defendants paid. Mr. Baker asked for | @ case, which was granted, Berkhampstead | Barvsley. Mr. William Turton, of Hoyland Common, who | has been to prison once, was summoned for refusing to have two of his children, Albert and Owen Turton, vaccinated.-Mr. Gradwell said it was something like nine or ten times that the defendant had been | brought before the magistrates for refusing to have | his. child vaccinated.-Defendant said he had a conscientious objection to vaccination, for it did not prevent smallpox. One of his children died when he was five months old, after being successfully vaccinated; and in the village nearly ail the cases where the children had been vaccinated, death hed taken place. One of their medical men in Hoyland ----The Chairman: We cannot go into that. -Defendant: But I want to show cause why I ebject to vaccination. I have already paid nearly £7 in penalties for the same child.-The Chairman: You are summoned for both children now, and it will make the fines double.-Defendant: I have always had inflicted upon me the fullest penalty, but it is at your option to mitigate it. There was a surgeon summoned at Derby, and he was fined 1/- and costs, because he was a bit better off-The Chairman : Perhaps he might have asked fr time to get vaccinated,- Defendant : No, he objected to it, and said it was wilful murder.-The Chairman: We don't think so.-Defendant was next charged with refusing to have his child, Owen Turton, vaccinated.- Defendant: It is against God's law and Nature's law, to contaminate a child with putrid rotten matter-The Chairman: We shall have to fine you 20/- and costs in each case, and make an order for both children to be vaccinated ; in default, you will be committed for a month's imprisonment in each case.-Defendant was asked if he would pay the fines and costs, amounting to £3. 7s., and replied that he could not.-Accordingly removed. Cambridge. Mr. James MacDowell, M.A., Trumpington-road, when summoned, said-I admit that the child has not been vaccinated, and I don't intend that it shall be.-The defendant contended with considerable ability that the magistrates must dismiss the summons, for the Act provided that proceedings could only be taken within twelve months of the time when the cause of the action arose.-The Magistrates 'made an order that the child be vaccinated within a fortnight. , Chester-le-Street. Mr. Thompson Millar, of Highton Banks, clerk at Pensher station, was charged with refusin to allow the lymph to be taken off his child's arm, a3 required by the Act. This being the first case of the kind, the Bench infiicted a mitigated penalty of 1/- and costs, which included an allowance of 10/6 to Dr. Williams for his attendance as a witness : a a? ' ; ; | July 1, 1872.] Public u ealth Journal. 5 Vv =-- Middleton. Mr. Thomas Okell was summ"ned a second time, | and fined 10/- and costs, though his child was out of the township. At the close the Benjamin Thorpe, the Anti-vaccination League, entered the box, and of asked permission to lay before the Bench a few facts | relating to the vaccination question, wlich might have weight with them, and guide their decisions in any similar cases which in future came before them. -Mr Thorpe was informed that the Bench declined to hear his statement. Preston. Mr. Edward Foster, chemist, has been again summoned, making more than a dozen prosecutions, and above £12 in fines, during little more than a year. Mr. Foster made a spirited defence, and ended by repeating that he never would submit his child to such a pestilential thing as vaccination. How to be Handsome. Most people like to be handsome. Nobody denies the great power which any person may have who has a good face, and who wins you by good looks, even before a word has been spoken. And we see all sorts of devices inmenand women to improve their good looks-paints, and washes, and cosmetics, including a plentiful anointing with dirty hair-oil. Now, not every one can have good features. They are as God made them; but almost any one can look well, especially with good health. It is hard to give rules in a very short space, but in brief this will do :- Keep clean; wash your whole body every day 'with warm and then cold water. All the skin wants ig leave to act freely, and it will take care of itself. Its thousands of air-holes must not be plugged up. Good teeth are a help to good looks. Clean 'them with a soft brush, morning and night, and -after every meal. Of course, to have white teeth 'you must let tobacco alone. Hat simple food and be sabstemious. Avoid hot drinks. Sleep in a cool room, in pure air, and rise early. 'No one can have a clean skin who breathes bad air. But, more than all, in order to look --well, 'wake up the mind and soul, and be good-tempered. 'When the mind is awake, that dull sleepy look /passes away from the eyes. I do not know that the 'brain expands, but it seems to. Think, and read 'books that have some sense in them. Talk with jpeople who know something. WHear lectures and 'learn by them. Leicester.-Increased vaccination is causing smallpox to appear everywhere. Itisin the neighbouring villages. In consequence of the severity of law and custom, much secrecy prevails. As far as I can learn, it is at present confined to the houses most redolent of sewage and manure,-M,D, ease, Mr. | secretary to the lecal branch of | | £30,000 from the Government for the promise. The Vaccination Life (?) Boat. Mr. Amos Booth, of Leicester, in one of his letters to the local newspapers, refutes Dr. Marriott, and makes a poit of his life-boat illustration :- Mr. M. says:-''For example, suppose 35 men were capsized upon the open sea, and a vessel hove to and picked up 28 of them, I don't think the survivors would quarrel with the vessel for not having prevented the boat capsizing, but would feel nothing but gratitude to those who had without doubt saved their lives." What inference he wishes to draw from this pathetic and capsizing affair in regard to vaccination, I am at a loss to perceive. I do say this--that if the vessel which hove to had received £30,000 from the English Government to go and rescue the whole of the men, and the offer was accepted, failing the saving the whole number there would be a breach of contract, and consequently a forfeiture of the money. But how was it with Jenner? Did he not promise to save the whole number from being capsized by smallpox if they would be vaccinated? He did, and received Has he saved them? Let us see. Dr. M. tells us that the Stockwell and Homerton boat contained 5,069 passengers; the boat was capsized, and 3,338 were lost (because it was vaccination and not re-vaccination for which Jenner received the money). Mr. T. Chambers told the House of Commons on August 15, 1871, that the St. James' boat had capsized, and out of 155 passengers 145 were vaccinated or lost. The Hampstead boat had likewise capsized ; and out of 2,695 passengers 2,347 were vaccinated or lost. The Marylebone boat met with a similar fate, and 92 per cent. were lost. The Birmingham Gazette, of Wednesday, March 6, 1872, reports the capsizing of the Birmingham boat with 42 passengers, and 40 of these were vaccinated or lost. If Mr, Marriott quotes Dr. Marson as a great authority in reference to smallpox, all I have to say in regard to him is-that I would not accept him as an authority at all, for a person that would stigmatise thinking and conscientious parents as murderers, because they wish to protect their children from misery and disease, is not worthy the notice of any right-minded individual. This Dr. Marson, before the Select Committee, in answer to the question-'' How is it, do you think, that fathers object to vaccination ?'"' said-Because the father had to maintain the family, and he did not care how few he had to keep ! I leave your readers to form their own estimate of such ? 96 The Anti-Vaccinator. i [July 1, 1872. The sseng of King Kiltm From the Journal of Hygiene, March, 1866. The Essence of Filth is Vaccination. A song and a shout for the great King Filth! for a rollicking King is he, That can flourish and thrive in the busiest hive, amid squalor and penury ; And we are his subjects, loyal and true to our monarch, and him alone; And we reyel and sport where he holds his court, -with a dunghill for his throne. Hark! how bravely he laughs in his drunken mirth, at the sound of the scavenger's bell, And thinks if such knaves were asleep in their graves, that the world would go fully as well: And we love the old King, in his slimy pomp, and would bow at his sceptre's sway, Nor care to be told that the customs of old should so lightly be frittered away. What care we though fever may stalk in his train, with its pestilential breath ? What matter though homes may be desolate made, 'neath the ravaging hand of Death ? Let them tell us those homes have been mouldy and foul ;-we would point to the wallowing swine, That can fatten and grow in a dwelling as low, where the bright sun never may shine. True, our Maker hath told us we ought to be clean,-that the breeze and the water are free ; Yet we poison them both with a niggardly sloth, and the Cesspool for ever! say we. Let us tread in the paths that our forefathers trod ; they were healthy-and some of them strong; Yet they knew not the ways of these newfangled days, and they surely could never be wrong! True, we've wondered and gazed on our little ones oft, as the bright eye grew weary and dim, As their cheeks became blanched, and their fire seemed quenched, on their parched lip and tottering limb ; And then looked on a plant as it languidly hung, till we've given it water and air, When again it has bloomed, but the child has been doomed ;-we could see no analogy there. But in yonder old Churchyard it moulders to dust,-and yet haply it might not have been, If the lesson that Heaven in Nature has given, had taught us the way to be clean. But away with such notions! abroad to the winds! such dainties for us are too dear ; And tho' filthiness kill, yet we'll cling to it still, if we save a few shillings a-year! i The Bill of Mr. Pease, M.P. I beg to call attention to the fact, that on the 10th July, Mr. Pease, M.P., is expected to bring forward in the House of Commons, for the second reading, his Bill for limiting the penalties for non- vaccination to a single infliction. Will you kindly exert yourself, and stir up your friends to send up petitions to the House in its favour. I would also suggest that every one who has been particularly aggrieved by the vaccination laws, should send up a special petition, setting forth his own particular = grievance-whether he has been fined or imprisoned, or whether any of his children have suffered from vaccination, be it by death or impaired health. The sooner this is done the better. | George Dornbusch. The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months ......... Is. 6d. Do. ] lad ect Sieh setae 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 30, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Printed by J, Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. 4 x \ The Anti-V accinator, and  . <> -- , Edited by John Pickering, F.S.S., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds, and Henry Pitman, Phonetic fInstitute, 41, John Dalton Street, Manchester. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. KS All Communications to be sent to the Editors, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. Ze | New Series. ~ July 18, 1872. [Price One Penny. aS see see ----- Contents, batt Page Lymph from the Cow ...... Moletoretre crereielerrerae 97 Petition to Parliament...... aioeeiee ehatesisvecieieus 98 NACCIMATION. and SyP MUS 2 <:. o\0 60-0.0:0.0 "2,00 e006 99 Notes of a Tour through the Haunts of the smallPox in Leeds.......... FOG Het 100 Dr. Playfair and the Death-Rate ....... aa O2 Nature and Conscience versus Law.......... 103 iditorial Article. sm.60.2~. <0 Sofas waetesiare sespals 104 Lecture on Vaccination .......... erohtkel (c) wpe siecs 106 A Lady's Defence of the Anti-Vaccinator....108 Cleanliness versus cowpox ..... ah ahslSisversters --109 smallPox in Leicester........... Sfailslersissesise 109 NACCIIAOTOM Yicre. o's as ctorsia oe Saleisha wisi eite-ssMerouie cts 110 Prosecutions :-State Tyranny-Imprisonment of Mr. Stokes ; Brightlingsea, Swindon ..111 Dre Diet s.. .¢ saleeteairs Pe: te oreisle tet ee ee Le News, &c.:-Vaccinators at Variance, 99; A Motto for Controversialists, 106; Mr. Cobbett, M.P., on Vaccination, 109; The Revival of Old Superstitions; Hurst, Oldham; smallPox after Vaccination, 110; Middleton, 111; Vaccination and the Vaccination Laws; A Determined Anti-vaccinator, 112. Lymph from the Cow. Many honest but not very well informed friends of vaccination, when they discover that vaccination is not what it pretends to be, naturally enough ask for lymph direct from the cow, in order that the risk of imparting human fliseases may be avoided. Some doctors profess to comply, and charge extra for vaccine matter 'rom their own heifer: this, we need hardly say, '8s a double imposition. Others use glycerine, santharides or some other irritating matter, with she view of humouring their patients, and not 'lamaging them beyond endurance. Diabolical attempts have been made in London and elsewhere to infect cows with smallpox, for the purpose of getting " original lymph " or poison. Cows were actually wrapped in blankets taken from the beds of patients who had died in a smallpox Hospital. The poor animals were more or less infected, but the result was not satisfactory ; and upon receiving hints from the medical high-priests, the filthy practice was stopped. It is said that before the war, a diseased cow was led about the streets of Paris for the purpose of direct vaccination. It isa good sign that these deceptive practices have been interdicted. But it is also a good sign that they were ever entertained. People saw that the arm-to-arm system was causing disease and death everywhere, and they demanded 'pure lymph." The object of passing it through the cow was to purify the lymph and also renovate it. Purelymph indeed! What a monstrous delusion to pass off corruption for purity! 'The poor cow has diseases enough of her own, without being infected with human rottenness ; for it is a mere assumption that the cow nature can neutralise the taints of humanity. In the draft report of the Select Committee on Vaccination (1871), there was this ambiguous paragraph :- Tt has been suggested that vaccination from the heifer instead of from the human subject should be recommended; but it appears to be so uncertain in its action, that its probable efficacy against smallpox much more than counterbalances its possible advantage, as a system for general adoption. Es er a a as 4 e co, a Tt was A toumne prudent to - ieptinka(r) this "Sentence, and it-did not appear inthe report which was adopted. We have a-letter from Mr. Simon, dated '' Whitehall, 3rd May, 1872," stating that ''the National Vaccine Establish-, ment does not furnish 'lytiph(r) obtamed direst fromthe cow. * * The Local Government have not thought it advisable to recommend that such vaccination should be practised." The erapes are sour. . The. '' medical department"' are inadilemma. The people won't be inoculated, and as the genuine poison cannot be got, a loophole is to be made for the escape of conscientious non-vyaccinators. This is beginning of the end. The limitation of the penalty will lead to the abolition of this detestable State quackery. Petition to Parliament. "% the Honourable the Commons of Great Britain ~ and Ireland, in Parliament assembled: ee The Petition of ratepayers and other inhabitants of Darlington, -in the county of Durham, in public meeting assembled at the hall of the ' Mcthanics' Institute, Feb. 20, 1872.:. "Humbly sheweth,-That your petitioners,ormany -of them, have for some years past had their attention turned to the subject of vaccination, and the laws relating thereto, and that in consequence of the public attention having been directed -to its evil character, and its impotency. in effecting the purpose -for which it was designed, the present Government consented to the appoiitihent of a4 Committee of Inquiry by your honourable House : "That the Vice-President of the Privy Council stated-in his: place m: Parliament, when moving for the appointment, of a Select Committee, that the Government would not have proposed the committee if they entertained - the smallest doubt as to the suceess.of vaccination. : "That. several: gentlemen who. were known partizans in favour of vaccination were nominated on the committee ; afforded the opponents of -the practice, to nominate any representing their views : "That the report of the committee is avowedly based on the opinion of a section" of the medical profession, which is unreliable for the following reasons :-' That one hundred years ago it was the orthodox opinion of the faculty that inoculation with the smallpox should be generally practised ; but the opinion was afterwards repudiated, and the practice made penal : The Anti-V- aecinator and ' the - while no opportunity was- "whatever pretence, to infect his family with disease. . [uly 15, 1872. 4 = JONI Bg - & sa "That in 1800. Pad an of "the" Srofdion sioned a declaration thus :- 'We, .the undersigned, physicians and surgeons, think it our duty to declare our opinion that those persons who have had 'the cowpox are perfectly secure from the infection of smallpox,' which opinion has been rendered | untenable by..the prequet: occurrence of smallpox after vaccination : _" That the practice of re-vaccination has been generally adopted in consequence of the failure of primary vaccination; as to the frequency 'of the operation, or as to the ~ number of punctures necessary for protection. 4 "That it has been incontestibly proved before the said committee that many other diseases are transmitted by vaccination-many of them worse than smallpox : "That it is avowed by leading vaccinators that if blood be conveyed by. the lancet, other diseases besides cowpox may be communicated: but no legislature can secure that a_surgeon's hand shall never fail, nor is it' possible for any practitioner to secure what 'is called pure lymph, which is in itself a sufficient reason why legislation on the subject is unjustifiable ; but no agreement prevails "Phat as infant mortality has increased coincidently with the extension of vaccination under the compulsory: law, there-is prima facie evidence that - vaccination is the -eause. No attempt was made - to contrevert this conclusion before the Select Committee : "That as the foregoing facts are manifest to all 4 persons who have carefully investigated the subject, - the Government and people of the United Kingdom - are im 'possession. of. no. guarantee that the "whole ~ medical profession-may not change its opinion in a ~ few years, especially when it is found that in Berlin, - Munich, Dresden, Stuttgart, Leipzig, Paris, and ~ other places, under laws which have stringently enforced vaccination for many years, smallpox has ~ been more 'virulent and fatal than in England, where it has been said to have been neglected. "Your petitioners further beg leave to inform - your honourable House, that the existing law is felt ~ by masses of the poor to be a cruel infliction, 7 whereby they are moved to resist the law, and are - inspired with~ disaffection and distrust of established q rule. > "Your petitioners Hee represent er it is" wholly improper for Parliament, under any circumstances, to enact a medical 'ereed or medical treatment, and that every head of a family has a natural indefeasible right to choose among medical - practitioners, | and to resist the attempt, under "Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray your honourable House that the practice of vaccination may be no longer enforced, by law, nor made a source of public expense. as 'And your petitioners will ever pray, &e." > Suty 15, 1872. ] Vaccination and Syphilis. Since the Compulsory Vaccination Act of -1853 came into force, the controversy' on transmission divided the leaders of the. medical profession. The most remarkable expression of opinion is that of Ricard, the celebrated French physician. In 1856 he declared it impossible to transmit constitutional disease by vaccination. In 1862, lecturing on certain now well-known cases at the Hotel Dieu, he said :-'* Let us admit and "carefully inquire into these cases; but as to "the interpretation offered, let it- be received "with an amount of hesitation and doubt, 'increased by the obvious fact that if éver the "transmission of disease with vaccine lymph "ig clearly demonstrated, vaccination must be "altogether discontinued; for im the present "state of science we are in possession of no "criterion which may permit the conscientious practitioner to assert that the lymph he *inoculates is perfectly free from admixture "with tainted blood." In 1863, speaking at the Academy of Medicine; he said :-At first I "repelled the idea that syphilis .could be '"' transmitted by vaccination.. The. recurrence 'of facts appearing more and more confirmative, I accepted the possibility of this mode of "transmission-I ought to say with reserve, "even with repugnance.. But to-day I hesitate 'no more to proclaim their reality." We quote from the discussion at the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, the opinions of several English physicians :- Dr. Blakewell thought that '' the mixture of blood was not the only way in which disease might be _ communicated by vaccination." 'Dr: De Meric said " It must be remembered that ' the vaccine lymph was formed from the blood, and | 'therefore it might be the means of conveying disease. That syphilis could be communicated by vaccination had been proved on the continent." Dr. R. B. Carter thought that "syphilis might | be communicated without the obvious introduction of | the blood." . ; Dr. Drysdale "had vaccinated a child suffering | from. syphilis, and warned the parents against having | 'any other children vaccinated from it. He learned, | however, that at one of the largest hospitals the 'child was used afterwards for the purpose of y vaccinating others."' __ Dr. Simon admitted "it was quite certain. that blood became mixed with the lymph, and the blood of 'syphilitic persons conveyed syphilis," \-Publie-thealth:-Journal. of constitutional disease has | cg Dr. Henry -Leeremarked that "it was often said by parents and friends that their children had never been. healthy since they.were' vaccinated, and" it might be taken for granted.that they recollected perfectly well who performed the operation, and often remembered it to his prejudice." Dr. Barwell, said "the public required an absolute assurance not only that one person in 10,000 or 100,000 would be syphilitic, but that no case would be affected." se is Dr. Ballard "thought the insularity of John Bull would be tolerably satisfied by the cases which had come almost heaped together. No one could refuse to admit that syphilis might"be communicated with vaccinia," - - Dr. Startin said 'he believed.in 80. years he had seen. about thirty cases. of syphilis communicated by vaccination. He had seen hundreds of cases of spurious vaccination, where contagious pormivo had -beea-indculated. @He had seen scabies vaccinated on more than one occasion. _When Dr. Simon sent. out his circular, in 1856, he (Dr. Startin) collected "several cases, giving the names and addresses of tho patients, but no notice had. been taken of them. They were undoubtedly cases where the children had been perfectly healthy, as well as their parents and nurses." Dr. Hutchinson said "it would be~a great satisfaction to him if tho first:series of cases proved not to" be syphilitic; at the same, time, he .did. not entertain a shadow of doubt upon the subject. In the present case the evidence wags cuniulative." Dr. Massey Harding writes 'Vaccination is certainly capable of propagating other: "diseases, especially syphilis." his Vaccinutors. at Variance.- Respecting the present epidemic, in the Zimes of June 17) Dr. hetheby says-'' Of every 100 cases of smallpox after vaccination, 13°7 were under 5 years ef age ;. 44°2. were between d and 15 ;.and 42:1 older." (He appears to be speaking of London.) | Then. three-fifths. of, the cases. were under the age of puberty.! .How is this to be reconciled to the prevalent dogma. that two vaccinations, one in imfancy and. another at puberty, are sufficient ?... Hvidently, the profession must | ''right-about-face"' again, and that soon. This is a timely adjunct to Dr, Grieve's late statement, to the effect that a considerable number of the Hampstead smallpox patients were children lately vaccinated: and an additional proof that the vaccination disease, whatever else it may. bear, bears strongly the impress of the prevailing variqlous. epidemic,. whatever that may be. It is generic variola, plus the special skin diseases of the child or children through whom it has passed. IOo   [July 15, 1872. Notes of a Tour Through the Haunts of the smallPox in Leeds. By Jno: Pickering, F.S.8. (Continued from page 386.) In 1871, Leeds was comparatively free from smallpox. Well vaccinated, the Vaccination Inspector (in his reports) sang the praises of vaccine to the Board of Guardians, and the papers echoed the tale of our security from the disease; and the Officer of Health to the Medical Department of the Privy Council, in his evidence before the Committee on the Vaccination Acts, in May 1871, pointed to Leeds as the place of all others where his instructions were properly observed, and the consequence was a perfect immunity from small - pox. Passing through the offices of the Leeds Board of Guardians one day, the [Inspector (Holmes) observed :-'' You see we have only had four or five cases during the last quarter; while in London, Liverpool, &c., the smallpox has been raging. That is the result of being well vaccinated." ''Isit?' I observed; ''and what will you say when the smallpox comes?" "'Let it come first," said he, '' and then we'll talk about that." And come it has at last, with a vengeance! It has set all their philosophy and their nostrums at defiance; and the Board of Guardians, the Inspectors, the Health Officer for the Borough, the Clerk, and the doctors, are struck dumb in the face of an epidemic more severe, more fatal, than any previous visitation within the memory of living man. The authorities abandoned the Fever Hospital (not willing to mix the smallpox with the typhus patients), - and took to the cholera sheds. They were afterwards obliged to build an additional wing, and at length they tenanted a building for the convalescents; and for months back they have all looked at the papers for the weekly return of admissions and deaths, as regularly as they looked for the rise or fall of the Bank rate! I do not care now to notice the reports of admissions to the hospitals to see how many are or are not vaccinated : I settled that some weeks ago, when I found, after a most anxious and careful investigation, that all the cases (or nearly so) had been well vaccinated, and the few who had not were instances of unfitness: the healthy unvaccinated were the best protected in the whole lot. There is no mystery about that to those who understand the question between us and the pro-vaccinators. Still, it is marvellous to read our weekly returns, and to note, even for weeks together, the absence of a single ''unvaccinated"' admission. The Leeds Union surgeons have a wholesome dread of any more ''cooked" statistics; for although they have escaped an inquiry into one charge of inaccuracy, so glaring that only a Board here and there could be found to pass it over in silence, yet they might not be so successful a second time. For once, however, I am satisfied with an investigation-and particularly when I see that every weekly report strengthens the opinion so often expressed, and which I still adhere to-that the healthy '' unvaccinated" do not take the smallpox, and that the ''unvaccinated"" who do take it, and who die of it, are those who are afflicted with hereditary _ disease, or whose natural vigour of constitution - has been lowered by an unsanitary mode of life. Some few years ago it was intended to erect a permanent smallpox Hospital in Leeds, but Dr. Allbutt said to the promoters :-'"' Itis of no use being at such expense, as in three years the (c) town will be so thoroughly vaccinated, that the smallpox will be stamped out!" They did not build the hospital; they did well-vaccinate the people; but they did not stamp out the smallpox . Of course they did not stamp it out. They did the very reverse. They stamped it ~ in: and now we are gathering up the fruit of _ their folly, and they cannot, will not, see it yet. And for the last six months, not a vacant space in the town where a bill could be posted, nota - wall or even a pig-stye (in the absence of a more available site), but what the industrious bill-sticker has hoisted the white flag of despair _ -''Vaccinate! Vaccinate!" and then ''Re- - vaccinate! Re-yaccinate!"' and neither threats - nor bribes will persuade the disease to go, - although there is evidence that its force is now - gradually abating. Verily, the miserable 7 quackery of this vaccination is disgusting! July 15, 1872.)  . At the commencement of the present century Malthus observed that epidemics fall chiefly "on the lower classes." He was not the first to notice so prominent and important a feature in connection with epidemics; for not only in England, but in other countries where plagues and pestilences have passed through the land, the poor have always been the principal sufferers. During the plagues which periodically yisited Constantinople about the middle of the last century, it was remarked that the upper classes and the foreigners-whether of Celtic, Teutonic, or Anglo-Saxon origin-were seldom attacked by the disease; and where any such cases did occur, the disease was of a very modified character, and rarely proved mortal, And in our own land, each epoch distinguished by any advance whatever in sanitary science has confirmed the truth of previous inquizies; and it is now a settled point, that diseases of the zymotic type find their food and sustenance mainly amongst the habitations of the poor. The present epidemic of smallpox is certainly no exception. In the 74 cases which gaye rise to the investigation under review, the whole of them, without exception, are furnished by the poorer classes of society, and the great majority of cases are from districts which are proverbially the haunts of fever and the abodes of crime, and of human wretchedness in its worst phases. Epidemics fall chiefly on the poor. Does the doctor know this fact? Not he, indeed! It seldom or ever occurs to him to Inquire if there be one class more than another upon whom the epidemic falls with greater severity. His mission (as he views it) is to deal ' with the disease, not to inquire whence it came, -upon whom it falls, nor yet how its visits can 'be controlled or prevented. If he knew that 'the smallpox was confined to the poor, to the | physically weak, or to those who are the subjects .of hereditary taint, how could he go to the rich /in his mansion, to the merchant in his detached )yilla, or to the tradesman living in his well- 'appointed house in a healthy street or terrace, 'and say to him:-''The smallpox is in our 1 midst, you must be protected by vaccination 'and revaccination ?" It is because he does not know it-or, if he knows it, he takes care not ILO. to act upon it-that he trusts to and advocates the imposture of vaccination. And, in addition to his ignorance of the philosophy of epidemics, his own interests (in a pecuniary point of view) so becloud his eyes, that he moves about in a darkness '' which may be felt," and he does not choose to see the ight of truth. Again: Do the people know that epidemics fall principally ''on the poor"? They do not. There is no question which stirs up the public mind at the present moment upon which there is such universal and lamentable ignorance. The people are not altogether to blame for the slavish fear which they have of the smallpox. The profession are more to blame, who frighten them with horrid recitals of '' pitted faces," of '* blindness," of ''dreadful disfigurements,"' and of the strange freaks of ''death." If the majority of the people knew the truth-knew that epidemics do not visit them, knew that the Passover sign is upon the very lintels of their doors, knew that the smallpox is nota dangerous disease when under proper treatment,- they would say to the vaccinator - ''Give me none of your filth. Iam protected -protected by the very conditions which surround my hfe, and need no other. 'The protection which I enjoy against typhus, plague, or cholera, is a sufficient protection against the smallpox." Men do not think upon this question. They are offered a '' protection"? which is nothing but a delusion and a snare; and they take it on credit, and without reflecting Whether there be reason or science in the thing they do;-anything to save them the trouble and responsibility of thinking for themselves. Let us, for a moment or two, in imagination follow the footprints of the demon of smallpox. He is a philosopher of high degree. He is a behever in Darwin's theory of 'natural selection," and he follows it out in practice. Like the hound, he can smell his game in the tainted air. He enters the town like the thief, under cover of the night. hoc takes an easterly course, for he knows that in thickly-populated towns men naturally seek the west for health. House after house he passes, street after street too; and he feels he has no power to hurt or destroy. At last he comes to the narrow street, the crowded court, and the cul de sac, where the very atmosphere is thick, and laden with pestilential vapours escaping from defective drainage, unventilated sewers, open middens, cesspools, and untrapped sinks; and where the people are stricken with poverty, that worst of all crimes; -and where the drunkard, the 102: prostitute, and the criminal of every shade and type, are found linked together in -a common brotherhood of filth. But even here he cannot do as he would, else he would slay them all. There are degrees of unhealthiness, even in conditions where the healthiest is yet unhealthy. He smites the weakest of the tribe where nearly all are weak; but he gloats over the frame depressed by disease induced by a long career of wickedness, or of unsanitary surroundings, and-the slender - and half wasted body of the child tainted by hereditary disease. A -tyrant here, he has all power committed to him and he wreaks his vengeance only where 'his right to "select"? -can neither be disputed nor defeated. He acts in aceordance with the principles -of a law which bears upon it the stamp of omnipotence-" Hitherto shalt thou come, but no farther." There is in the case of every person attacked a susceptibility to disease, at "' fever~ heat," as-it were, or- the~ disease could not-attack the patient; and the smallpox demon obeys.a law as fixed as that which rules the comet in its course. Hence we-see the folly of ""prophylactics," of vaccination, and all such nostrums which cheat the world and-delude mankind. The only protection against zymotic" disease is a healthy life, a healthy home, and sanitary surroundings; and he who preaches a different doctrine 1s a charlatan, an empiric, or a fool. stances, and apart from direct inoculation of the blood, ts as powerless to attack a healthy life, as it 1s to seize the highest peak of the Alps and hurl it from its summit to its base. There must be a natural preparedness for disease:before' there~ can ~ 'be~a ~ ''natural selection" by the smallpox, or by any other disease of its type. Hence, how simple are those who advocate the doctrine that vaccination tion must be a good thing, because nurses who are. exposed. to small - pox infection do not contract the disease! . How can they. be affected by. the smallpox ? Infection has no message for them.....At contagion they can afford to.snap. their fingers. Their rude and. rustic health. is their. best protecti on, and.there is no prophylactic. in the realms of nature equal to it; but at..serves. theends the physician has in view. to "be 'able to refer the 1gnorant..to the nurse. argument... And again: how wicked, nay, how criminal,.it is to frighten the timid, whether. rich orpoor,.into a slavish and superstitious fear .of. a disease which, to the clean and healthy, and m the diluted form.of infection, is.as harmless as the breath of eae *(Lo: be 'continued. Wis ea) say ciahiboh tepid scaled Thee -Anti-vaccinator and The smallpox, under ordinary circum=-~ en ee wana * Dr, Playfair and the Death-Rate, In a lecture recently delivered to the students of St. Mary's Hospital, Dr. Lyon Playfair, M.P., "congratulated himself and Mr. who was present, that the death-rate in this country has been brought down from 30 per 1,000 annually, since they first met as colleagues on the sanitary commission, to 17 per 1,000." He also stated that "eighty thousand lives are annually saved. by vaccination." The reduction spoken of by Dr. Playfair would be equivalent to a saving of 3,800 lives in Manchester, and 1,600 in Salford, annually. Certainly so remarkable a statement from one of the most distinguished authorities on the subject, seems to call for some explanation from the sanitary. officials of the two towns. The statement that '"cighty thousaud lives are annually saved by vaccination,' requires some explanation from Dr. Playfair himself, since we have~ it on equally good authority that while the number - of deaths from smallpox has greatly diminished, the number of deaths from other diseases has increased in an equal or even greater degree; and there is an > impression that since the introduction of vaccination the mean duration of human life. has sensibly diminished. The results of my own examination of the numerical data bearing upon the subject, are by no means of that satisfactory and decisive character that I-could have wished; and if vaccination is the. unalloyed. blessing it is represented to be, it is difficult to understand why its advocates have not applied the same principle to ward off other diseases. It certainly seems strange that the principle, if sound, should apply to one only of the " countless ils. that flesh is heir to." ple Baxendell. Manchester. A copy of the above was sent to Dr. pane who promptly replied :- 'I have not seen any report of my address to the students in St. Mary's Hospital, and therefore I am unable to say whether the reports are correct. What I did say on the points to which you allude, was in substance as follows :- 1. That when the Sanitary Commission of 1846 began its labours, there wére numerous cases in which the urban death-rates were 30, and sometimes 40, per. 1,000.. That now the average urban death-rate was. 25 per 1,000, and that in the best cases 17 per 1,000 had Ne attained. 2. I did state, on the authority of the late Sir James Simpson, that 80,000 lives on our present population in -the United Kingdom-are annually saved by Jenner's discovery, J..think this estimate is quite.a fair one. one side, without anything being allowed for other _ diséases Which "Anti-vaccinators beliéve Ought to be' _ [outy 1B, 3972, . Edwin Chadwick, as to ey ten oe he eer, ane as pee a as ip as cs FO Cy eT Of course-this gives credit on. July 15, 1872.)  . 163° brought into the balance. I in no way share that opinion, and therefore believe that large saving in life (?) can be justly claimed for a sanitary measure.- Your obedient servant, een Playfair : Mr. H. Pitman. It is one of the most surprising instances of. the proneness to folly in the human mind, that the Sanitarians should rightly make such strenuous endeavours to purify houses and towns, and yet advocate the defilement of the healthy body. Is it not the object of sanitary regulations to prevent the possibility of poisonous particles entering the body through the lungs? Why then put poison in by. other means ? - _ It is true that the ''urban" death-rates have been reduced by sanitary (real) efforts; but the general death-rate for England and Wales, during the last thirty years, has increased each decade thus :- 1838 to 1847... 1848 to 1857....22°464 1858 to 1867.. 22° d71. And a more atutd investigation shows that this general increase is due to a greater increase of mortality among infants, who have been especially affected by the extension of vaccination tion. Had it not been for this, the Chadwickians would have had a decrease of general deathrate to point to as a proof that their local gains were not mere statistical delusions, as some seem to imagine. Sir James Simpson's 80,000 was a mere ithetorical, not statistical, fieure, and formed | part of his argument for 'isolation; as thus :-- ' "Vaccination may have saved 80,000 lives -per annum; but as smallpox still prevails in spite of vaccination, we cannot expect to see the _ dreams of the early vaccinators realised; therefore, &c. &c." Dr. Lyon Playfair says he 'thinks it '"'a fair estimate ;" but he would be ) puzzled if asked for the data. ~ Baron says- L Betisor ""caleulated"' that smallpox carried ,22°188 per 1,000 of Cyaan W " an " ( off 210,000 per annum. in Hurope during last ' century. Lettsom, in, hig. '' Obseryations.on the 'cowpock," says-"'I am bold to. suggest that ;smallpox," &c.; but adopting this figure for | Europe, then the population of the United | Kingdom being about one-tenth of the-whole, We: should have an average of 21,000.smallpox deaths in the United Kingdom in, the last tury. Simpson. probably, and, Playfair | i imphcdiy, double this number in estimating the } ''salvation"' of life, because the population is doubled; but the general - death - rate... being halved by general improvements, the actual number would remain the same. Then, in point of fact, the smallpox deaths in the United Kingdom during the present. century have averaged quite 10,000 per annum, leaving only 10,000 to be accounted for by the absence of that other mad practice of the faculty (inoculation), which Moorejustly debits with the sacrifice of ''millons of lives." Surely it is easily conceivable that smallpox inoculation, if now practised, would speedily double or Y quadruple ee smallpox mor isa (r) 4 Nature and Conscience versus Law: Many parents who are unbelievers in the efficacy of vaccination, and whose paternal instincts. and consciences rebel against the Compulsory vaccination tion Laws, -are nevertheless afraid to refuse. compliance with them, because they have nota clear understanding of their duty, or a definite idea of the legitimate claims of human laws upon their obedience. Laws which ordain usages that are contrary to our paternal instincts are unnatural, and those which oppress the conscience are unjust ; and in either case we ought to be prepared to accept the conditions imposed upon us for our non-compliance with them. George Fox, the founder of the Quakers,- took this 'position; and in reply to the-aceusation. of. disloyalty,.said.:-* We obey the law, for it, offers us this alternative-the. {reedom of our bodies with slavery of conscience; or, ag gE and. free consciences: and we eeuoe the latter." A consistent adherence to their principles has won for -the Quakers a freedom which has never Deen enjoyéd by any other body of Nonconformists. We say, therefore, the people ought not to obey any law which sins against- nature or conscience. Animal instinct, manifested by. the involuntary effort to save the life of our offspring, is the natural conscience; and human instinct is the voluntary effort to save our moral life: and-to forfeit these is to sink beneath the level of-"' the beasts that perish."' But we are asked-May not our consciences be at fault 2 We-answer-Certainly not ; but to enforce compliance with laws which are in opposition to our most sincere convictions of duty, is to ~paralyse conscience, to demoralise men, and to induce a state of political rottenness which. must inevitably be followed by national dissolution, If our law-makers wotld command the confidence of the people, they must legislate -wisely,-and not. bring mto.antagonism our, consciences and our instincts "with unjust and erucl laws, "John Parton Berry, MRCVS. * 104   (July 15, 1872. The Anti-Waceinatar. ->- July 15th, 1872. Now, as to the ages at which the mortality from smallpox is most fatal, it will doubtless be a surprise to many readers when they are told that 25 per cent. of the total deaths from smallpox take place in infants under one year of age, that 50 per cent. occur in children under 5 years of age, and that 75 per cent. of the total deaths occur under 20 years of age, and the remaining 25 per cent. dic at ages reckoning from 20 up to 60. As age advances, the liability to die of this disease declines. Hence we see the folly of urging re-vaccination at "puberty." Of what use is re-vaccination at puberty, when 75 out of every 100 victims to this disease in any given year are dead and buried? If vaccination will not protect the infant, re-vaccination must be doubly useless, -nay, it is a grosser deception still. How foolish is the man who, at 20 years of age and upwards, has no more sense than to give his arm to the vaccinator, and his body to the infiltration of a virus whose virtues are represented by two p's-poison and pollution! All decayed animal matter is poison-it is matter which has lived, is dead, and is in a state of putrefaction. From this indiscriminate distribution of a poison whose juice is as deadly as that of hellebore, the mind recoils with horror and dismay. Again: what is the use of vaccination itself, when it is twenty thousand to one that any single individual will have the smallpox at all, and not one reason in the world if he has it that he should be disfigured by it, or that he should die of it? After all, it is a suggestive fact that there is ''death in the pot," when 25 per cent. of the victims of smallpox are infants under one year of age, and 50 per cent. perish before the fifth year is attained. Why this is so, may be better understood when it is borne in mind that notwithstanding it is penal to} create the smallpox in any way, either by inoculation or otherwise, yet this is actually done by vaccination, and in defiance of the law. Supposing that the vaccine virus comes from the '' grease" in the horse, or the - ''cowpox"' in the cow, all writérs, from - Jenner downwards, agree in saying that these diseases answer to the smallpox in man, and that the same conditions which develop the smallpox germ, if germ it be, would naturally produce the other two disorders in the horse and the cow. 'This is what we are told-and it may be so. However, observe the inconsistency. To create the smallpox directly by inoculation is felony; but vaccination, which positively creates the smallpox, is enforced by a penal statute! Of all the contradictions in the world of matter or of mind, the like of this is nowhere to be found. But the inconsistency will be more apparent as we proceed. The vaccine virus which is used now in arm-to-arm vaccination, is smallpox matter merely passed through a cow. The vaccine does not come from the horse, nor from the cow, but from the human subject in smallpox. It is the very self-same virus which it is felony to use directly - in inoculation; but after it has been ''modified"' by transmission through the cow, then the use of it is enforced by statute! Why, it is the very case contemplated in the Act to punish those who ''create" the smallpox! All this mischief has gone on for years, because everybody has taken the thing for granted, and others have placed all their reliance upon the faculty, who, paid for what they do, would vaccinate till the end of time. If the smallpox were not 'created'? and invaccinated, how could it be that so many infants should perish of this disease before they attain their first year? The truth is, that in vaccination the smallpox is implanted, just as much so as it was by inoculation; but by passing the virus through the cow, and then for the last thirty years through successive generations of children, with every imaginable disease, hereditary or communicable, the virus in use is the incongruous essence of smallpox and other like diseases; and so, instead of a great mortality in smallpox, the mortality is spread over a wider field-the evil is none the less. That this is the true state of the case, we challenge the faculty to dispute, and the truth of this yiew will be confirmed, as will _ July 15, 1872.] 105 hereafter appear from future returns, when the practice of vaccination shall be reckoned among the fallacies which have preceded it, and men will have learnt to live a natural life and to die a natural death. Until within the last few months, lke thousands of our fellow-countrymen at the present moment, our impression was that the vaccine came from the horse; and any man would be excused when he finds that the idea is the principal feature of Jenner's patent-right. That Jenner, and his followers for many years, accepted this version of the story, is a fact which has been proved in these pages, over and over again; for all writers since 1798 have quoted Jenner's works in support of this view. But from recent investigation and inquiry we are satisfied that neither the horse nor the cow is the source of the vaccine. Jirstly, we find that cases of ''the grease"' in the horse are not so rare as we once thought them to be, and that inoculation with the "limpid fluid" issuing from the ''fissures" or cracks" in the heel, do not produce the pustules on the cows which Jenner describes. We know men who continually manipulate horses afflicted with ''the grease," and the only effect of accidental inoculation is a slight inflammation round the wound. And these men attend to cows as well, but no such disease as cow-pow is seen about the premises, nor has such a disease ever been brought winder the cognizance of any of these men. How then is it to be accounted for that Jenner should have made such an egregious blunder? An easy answer to the question is at hand. Jenner was mistaken. He attributed the effect-cowpox-to the wrong cause. What is called the smallpox in our day is admitted to be nothing less than direct inoculation of the cow with human smallpox matter. Now, there is no doubt but that the cowpox of Jenner was produced in precisely the same way, the only difference being that we do it knowingly and intentionally, but in Jenner's time it was the result of accident. 'This last idea is suggested simply in the interest of Jenner's honesty. The farm-seryants at Berkeley had the smallpox at times very severely, and frequently went to work before they ought to have done, and, in milking, the cows were inoculated with smallpow mfection from the unhealed sores on the hands of the milkers. When, therefore, the pustules appeared on the cows, other servants in milking would naturally be infected, and would contract the disease known as cowpox, but which was really secondary smallpox, -the medium being a cow, and not the human subject. This theory explains the whole surroundings of Jenner's clumsy discovery. It stamps him as a man in whom no confidence should be placed. Verily, if any proof of this were needed beyond that which is supplied by his own writings, the theory which is now offered as an explanation of the phenomena of cowpox and vaccine, would be conclusive to a demonstration. If cowpox were produced by inoculation from the horse, then the cows, and the farm-servants as well, would exhibit the ""cowpox"' now. Neither of these results are ever seen to take place. Whereas, ¢f the cow is inoculated with human smallpow, the cow-pow can be produced, and from that source the vaccine virus which has becn in use since 1840 has been derived; and therefore it follows that vaccination is in very truth nothing short of inoculation with smallpox matter after it has passed through the cow. If, as Dr. Moore states, ''milhons"' perished by smallpox inoculation, there need be no hesitation in saying that ''milhons" are perishing now by vaccination tion, inasmuch as the two discases are identical. That which is put into the cow is smallpox matter, and that which comes out of it is smallpox matter. Ience, vaccination and inoculation are the same operation, and the result is that the smallpox will never die out-because we will not let it. The grave's mouth is never closed, Death has never done his work, the mourners' tears perpetually flow, human hearts never cease their breaking,-because the vaccinator never tires of his trade, but pursues his horrid ayocation morning, noon, and night. The mystery is cleared up: our children may well die, when they are so '' successfully"' poisoned. O God! lay not this sin to their charge, for ''they know not what they do." The 106 Thé Anti-Vaccinator and Vaccinator of our own times 1 is Death's prime minister. We have no hesitation in saying that the Vaccinator of our day is clearly subject to an | information under the Act of 30 & 31 Vict., c. 84, sec. 32, which runs as follows:-'' Any person who shall after the passing of this Act produce or attempt to produce in any person by inoculation with variolous matter, or by wilful exposure to variolous matter, or to any matter, article, or thing impregnated with variolous matter, or wilfully by any other means whatsoever produce the disease of smallpox in any person, shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable to be proceeded against summarily, and upon conviction to be inipriconed for any term not exceeding one month." It is well known that the principal.stock..of virus now in use was supplied by the late Dr. Ceely, of Aylesbury, and by the late Mr. Bad-. whom cock, chemist, of Brighton, both of obtained their. lymph = the inoculation of cows with smallpox matter. How frequently is it observed that children even within a few days after vaccination, are seized with the smallpox; and this cireumstance has naturally produced the conviction in the minds of the parents, and not infrequently in the mind of the doctor, that there. was a palpable and evident connection between the vaccination and the subsequent smallpox. Upon the principles above enunciated, the relation of cause and effect may be clearly established, and may not be so difficult of proof as to deter us from laying an information. The vaccinators would soon 'give up vaccinating when the prison doors were brought so near_to their own homes. .We think it is clearly worth the risk of a trial. It would be no small triumph over the vaccinators if we should follow the example of Byron "with the Scotch reviewers, and '" break them on thei elr own wheels." =~ - --- Sos = is ds Motto for bioeeseaners sialists. The. .experience. of a life devoted to the advocacy of an unpopular truth, conyinces me that no cause is ultimately advanta god by the abuse of its opponents. -J. W. Jackson. | to listen in the most critical spirit; to take nothing the Mayof of Prestdn, inviting him to preside ; It-weouldy however, be easy to-give: quite as. Imposing | the case to rest on its own merits, Lecture on Vaccination. By the Rev. W. Hume-Rothery. (Reprinted from the Preston Guardian, June 8, 1872.) A lecture was delivered on Wednesday night, at the Corn Exchange Assembly-room, by the Rev. W. Hume-Rothery, "of Middleton, under the fable of " Vaccination alias Infanticide." ~The Lecturer said that twenty years ago he preached one Sunday evening in St. Peter's Church," Preston ; and if he were not quite certain the work before him that evening was equally as sacred as he- discharged on the former occasion, he would not stand upon that platform. He always began his. lectures in the same way, beseeching his hearers not to give credit to a single statement he made unless it well approved itself to their consciences and reason ; for granted; to destroy everything they could logically annihilate; and to come to no other conclusion than that forced upon their minds by truthful evidence and rational argument. But it must be borne in mind, whatever conclusion they were driven to accept, it was their bounden duty to God, to themselves, and to their fellow-creatures, to act accordingly, leaving the consequences in the hands of Him who rightly claimed our allegiance. He thought it right to say, before proceeding, that. he: had written-two letters respecting this lecture-one to. and the other to the Poor-law Guardians, inviting them to be present. The latter letter had been published in the Preston papers; and in the former he said, after requesting the favour of his worship's presidency :-'' Any person who will look into the subject must elearly see that vaccination is one of the greatest delusions. ever palmed upon. the country, and that consequently the Vaccinations Acts are a monstrous outrage upon justice.' He thought it right to begin by recognising that there were two sides to the question; and that whilst many opposed the system of vaccination, others upheld it. Sir Dominic Corrigan stated in hig evidence before the House of Commons Committee, that an unvaccinated child was like a barrel of petroleum or a keg of gunpowder :.Dr. Wood compared, such a child toa mad dog: and Professor Huxley said he would as soon place i in the way of children lozenges drugged with sttychiia, as allow a child to go 'unvaccinated: an array of names on the other side; but he wished "For his 'own [July 15, 1872. July 15, 1872.]  . 107 "part, he regarded vaccination as nothing but man's craft on God's work: God never ordained it, and therefore m&am_had no right to expect a blessing from it, but he might-certainly look for a curse. He was not opposed to vaccination some years ago, but his attention was directed to the subject on the vaccination of his own child. Wis wife, secine the doctor puncture the arm of a healthy~ child, exclained-" This is most unnatural! It is a wrong practice, I am certain!' 'When asked her reasons for saying this, she said she was unable to give them, as the idea had only just occurred to her; but she Was positive it was wrong. ' But," said "the doctor, "itis homoeopathic." "No," replied Mrs. Hume- Rothery, "no homocopathist would cut the skin and | put the medicine directly info the blood.'' When she mentioned the subject to him, he saw at once that the whole thing was a miserable delusion, as it must be wrong to do wrong, even on the smallest scale, whatever the object in view. At that time he had never heard of the Anti-Vaccination League, nor had he read of its doings; but common sense showed him that the system of vaccination was one of the greatest bubbles ever blown. Now, in laying a few simple arguments before the meeting, he wished first to show that there was no such thing as Vaccination at the present day, but that that which passed as vaccination was a gross frand palmed off upon the public. Jenner, in one of his works, stated that the protecting fluid must come from the ercasy heels of a consumptive horse ; that it must pass through the cow, and then be inserted into the arm'of a child. He affirmed that the pustules or sores upon the nipple of a cow's udder in the spring of the year, did not yield the protecting matter ; but that if must come primarily from the hecls of the horse. In the present day, no pro-vaccinator with whom he ever met would admit that Jenner was correct; if they asked any doctor whether he derived his matter from the greasy 'heels of a diseased horse, he would. say he did not: hence that which now went under the name.of vaccination was not vaccination. at all...In tracing the career of Jenner briefly, the lecturer spoke of the practice of inoculation as previously intreduced by Lady Mary | Wortley Montagu,'from her observations at Constantinople in 1717; and then stated that that which /was professed to be " prophylactic against smallpox 'was in 1840 made penal. If they took Jenner's jsystem.as the standard, that which at the present iday went by the name.of vaccination was something jquite different.in. practice from what he introduced, ifor which he received £30,600 of thenation's money. It was said that if the lymph were pure, vaccination mustbe.good; but he begged to say that, there was mo such thing as pure lymph in this connection. 'That which came from the artificial pustules, was othing more than pus or rottenness ; and, therefore, that which went under the name of pure lymph vas nothing but a fraud and a falsehood, deserving evere reprobation. | | | Further, vaccination was. an. junprincipled,..unnatural..thing. ./There were many. facts in life natural-such as eating, drinking, walk-. ing, sleeping; but was it natural to take a lancet, break the skin, and put rottenness into the blood ? ('It isn't.) The theory that we might do evil that good might come, which was the theory of: vaccination tion, was untenable; for if this were true-thank God it was not!-it would upset morality entirely, as a man might filch from his master in order to keep his family from the workhouse. Further, it was a well-established and incontrovertible law of God, that as one sowed so should he reap; and if they sowed rottenness in the blood of a little child, must they not expect to reap a harvest of disease ? Again: vaccination was an outrage upon the simplest laws of physiology. The blood, the life of the flesh, was so jealously guarded by the Almighty that. nothing entered it direct from without. The lungs, the skin, and the digestive apparatus, were all endowed with a discriminating and sifting power, so as to exclude and reject that which might injure, and accept only what was necessary for the sustenance of the life of the body. Then, the doctor who took a lancet, broke the tissue of the skin, and put anything directly into the blood, trampled upon some of the simplest laws of physiology, and deprived the body of its right of selection of such substances as were needed for its well being. A practice which out-. raged the laws of physiology was self-condemned, and could not be productive of anything but harm. What was the cause of smallpox? He answered "Wilth!? It was filth in every instance; it might come from an impure atmosphere, from foul air, from a reeking midden-stead or foetid ash-pit; 'but. it was always filth, impurity getting into the blood, which was the primary cause. What then happened? Why, if there were sufficient bodily force, the impurity was thrown out from the centre to the circumference, from the blood on to the skin, where the poison could be rapidly exhaled; but if the blood was thoroughly drenched with poison, and this curative process could be prevented by vaccination tion, the consequence would be great disorder of the, functions, and ultimately death. What, then, would prevent smallpox? If impurity was its cause, then nothing but the 'absence of impurity could prevent it. Did not that seem a rational argument? If filth was the producing cause, what inthe name of common sense could prevent smallpox but purity P Turther, he had heard it said by a medical man that that which was used as vaccine now, was sometimes not vaccine at all, but was glycerine and cantharides. He was ready to state on oath, before any tribunal-although he could not give names-that this was a practice sanctioned by legally-qualified medical authority. Now, to his mind, this was one of the most decisive acknowledgments that vaccina-' tion was utterly useless. When inoculation was first used, it was applauded to the skies as one of the greatest blessings that ever came on earth; but.in the year 1840 that-practice was made penal. There could be no harm, at any rate, in saying that the medical profession might be in error on the-subject: of vaccination. OEE OE 38 Geka as Aroha ns ahah a Sie WY, "(To be-continued.) ~~~ PRES is nel eats betihieg adameaett 108   [July 15, 1872. A Lady's Defence of "The Anti-Vaccinator." Having sent to a cousin a copy of No. 2 of the Anti-Vaccinator, in which my article appeared ('' Vaccination a Relic of Barbarism,'') I received the following from him in reply :- My dear Cousin,-Respecting your enclosure, I can only say that I am surprised at a young lady of your sound sense having anything to do with such an excrescence of rubbish as the 4nti-Vaccinator. It would be far better, and more in accordance with feminine modesty, if ladies would attend to their own domestic duties, and leave medical questions alone, rather than bring a share of ridicule and disgrace upon their sex. What do you suppose you know of vaccination? What is the use of medical advisers at all, if young ladies and old women are to discount their views, and denounce theories and facts pronounced and announced at the cost of many years' toil and labour? We laugh at   such rubbish, merely because these periodicals are got up to make a trade upon certain fanatical whims of certain sections of the public. If, instead of abusing medical men and such a sound' and good preventive against smallpox as vaccination, you were to take the returns of the Registrar-General, and examine the reports on this very question, you would derive more benefit than from supplying such a penny-a-liner as the A, V. with foolish articles. You will see that vaccination has been the cause of stamping out smallpox both from Ireland and Scotland! The abuse of vaccination is, I perfectly grant, a great evil; but I know from philosophical grounds perfectly well, that vaccination is a certain modifier of smallpox. You say God never intended people to be vaccinated. Did He ever intend them to be unhealthy, or ever have smallpox? Do not you think that people have brought all that upon themselves with their style of living? Then, if so, preventive measures must be found. Newcastle can give you a sample, in poor Ranson's case, who, besides. being a tectotal lecturer, stumped against vaccination. He was seized with smallpox, and died in seven 'days. His two children followed, but his third child, who had been vaccinated meanwhile, was ill and recovered. I don't want to be impertinent or harsh, but I strongly advise you to discontinue advocating a cause you cannot fully understand. Leave vaccination to skilful surgeons, and men who have studied their profession for years. -Y ours affectionately, a The following is my reply :- Newcastle, June 5. My dear Cousin,-Many thanks for your letter. It was well meant, no doubt, but totally lost upon me. Iam too far gone for any remonstrances now. In the first place-I was thoroughly convinced by practical experience that vaccination was wrong, and I have it confirmed every day. Secondly-the Anti-vaccinator 18 not a penny-a-liner, as you suppose. | It is edited and supported by people who are entirely disinterested (from a pecuniary point of view). Thirdly-you seem to think it impossible that a woman can know anything and be able to cook at the same time. You are wrong, let me assure you. I can be as domesticated as you please, and still it does not prevent me writing on any subject I like; and I don't find that the one in any way injures the other. Fourthly-I am not one to think women ought to be slaves, nor yet do I advocate '"Women's Rights," generally so called; but I do advise the better education of women, so that they may be considered more as companions for the men, instead of silly flirts or servants, who can be had at any corner for a trifle. Fifthly-medical men were not instituted by God to think for the public. If any, gross error or flagrant imposition is discovered by the latter, it is their duty to fight till it is put down; and that is precisely what is being done, and I am going to help do it. Consult the Registrar-General's returns yourself, and you will see, to your astonishment, that far more die among the vaccinated than on the other side. As for Scotland and Ireland being freéd from it, that is a stupendous fallacy, as the above returns will show. I firmly believe that all diseases (smallpox included) are induced by dirt, bad air and food; and I would never charge God with afflicting any one. Hoping you will think a little before you entirely condemn me,- believe me still your loving cousin, Pam. Insanitary Condition of Lreland.- The Lord- Lieutenant has received a memorial from Irish doctors and surgeons, asking his Excellency to use his influence to obtain a Royal Commission to inquire into the state of public health in that country, and the working of the Medical Charities Act; and, further, that a system of sanitary legislation for Ireland should be deferred till such a commission had reported on the subject. Dr. Kennedy read the memorial, which stated that the condition of public health satisfactory ; that the existing sanitary laws are complex and to some extent inoperative; that comprehensive legislation is needed; and that, in the opinion of the memorialists, an inquiry into the sanitary condition of the country is necessary, and eminently calculated to form a sound basis for future legislation.-Dr. Stokes stated that nothing could be more certain than that the profession had no pecuniary or personal interest in the matter. They held that preventive medicine was far beyond curative. He made the startling statement that Ireland was subject about every ten years to a devastating epidemic, unknown in England and Scotland. - The lLord-Lieutenant promised his influence to obtain the improved sanitary legislation, which he thought the people were quite prepared to approve. in. ireland is note a "a Suly 15, 1872.] Cleanliness versus cowpox. In a letter addressed to tho Leicester Journal of June 21, Dr. Barry and Mr. Lee (house surgeon to the Infirmary) ''suggest the advisability of procuring the lymph direct. from the heifer, with the object (they add) of carrying out the process of vaccination as practised by Dr. Jenner. We have litle hesitation (say they) in asserting, that should this be generally adopted by medical practitioners throughout the country, smallpox as an epidemic would cease to exist." As Glendower boasted that he could "call spirits from the vasty deep," so vaccinators boast that they can hurl back smallpox into the (to them) mysterious deep from which it sprang. It is much the same with the Manchester official. Give Mr. Leigh unlimited despotic power and unlimited funds, and he would almost stamp out smallpox. But this would be no step in advance, by his own confession. Almost stamping out, means leaving a few cases; and he admits that one or two cases would be sufficient to set the country ablaze again ! This Leicester letter is remarkable in several points. First, that although from professed supporters of vaccination, it disdains to make use of the one-sided statements curiously called statistics. Secondly, for the straightforward admission that ''the belief that venereal and other taints may (by vaccination) be introduced 'into the system, is not altogether unfounded," an admission the more valuable as given on the experience of the house surgeon of the infirmary of a large manufacturing town in which vaccination and epidemics are respectively high above the average. We may remark, that in the numerous letters to the Leicester papers during the present epidemic, writer after writer complains of the state of the '' ashpits" (as they are called), from which in this hot weather the 'stench has become fearful." When Bunyan was confined in Doubting Castle, he recollected almost too late that he had the key of escape in his own bosom. 'The Doubting people of Leicester would do well to search for the key of | escape from their difficulties: they would find | it, not in cows or bulls, but in " purification" -in freedom from their sewage and ''ashpit"' gases, unseen but not unsmelt, in their large town. With 'proper' purification (not mere useless Lene smallpox as an epidemie would speedily cease to exist.  . 109 smallPox in Leicester. After many supplications, long in vain, the public voice has procured its first weekly return (from the Local Board of Leicester) of the progress of the smallpox epidemic. It appears in the Leicester Advertiser of June 22:- Return of Cases of smallnox, week ending June 20. By J. W. Crane, M.D., Officer of Health. Fresh Cases since Thursday evening, June 13 .. 96 Present number now under treatment . .236 Deaths since the 13th es a oie a tO Of these 52 were vaccinated, and 5 unvaccinated. The above figures consist of the returns from 14 registered medical practitioners of the town; of the remaining 15, 7 have made no returns, and 8 have no cases. The above figures do not include the cases in the smallpox Hospitals. Not one death among the unvaccinated! The statistics here given offer another to the abundant proofs that smallpox chiefly affects vaccinated people. The reason why Anti-vaccinators escape, is to be found in their care to keep their houses as free as possible from sewer and cesspool gases ; a task of extreme difficulty in a town governed by their opponents. It will be a daring task, and '"'one of the feats of the future," to reconcile with the above figures the statement borrowed from the Lancet by a local paper a few weeks ayo - that ''unvaccinated people will catch the epidemic, and die at the rate of 51 per cent." How perverse it is of us to refuse to accept smallpox at command, and die in statistics according to order ! Mr. Oobbett, M.P., on Vaceination.- At an Anti-vaccination meeting held in the Market- place, Middleton, on Monday evening, the Rey. Wilham Hume-Rothery stated that he had that day received a letter from Mr. J. M. Cobbett, M.P. for Oldham, in which the hon. gentleman said he regarded the vaccination laws as tyrannical, and vaccination itself as a dangerous practice. Mr. Cobbett added, that the late Mr. Tom Duncombe, M.P. for Finsbury, used to converse with him on the subject ; and he (Mr. Cobbett) regretted his death greatly on account of the determined opposition Mr. Duncombe was about to offer to the vaccination laws. Mr. Cobbett added that the world had gone mad upon this subject, and nothing short of a miracle would cure it; and, although greatly out of health, he would do his utmost to forward the Anti-vaccination movement. - Manchester | Guardian, June 19, 1872. ~TTO Vaccination. " (From the Leigh Times, June 29, 1872.) Sir,-I thank you for allowing the subject of vaccination to be ventilated in your paper, believing that truth never was foiled in a fair encounter. It has been difficult to get at the truth on this subject, and people have been too much accustomed to take it for granted that vaccination was a good thing because the doctors said so. " Veritas'? quotes Dr. French in' favour of the greater number of marks proving the protection of vaccination ; whereas it proves the contrary, thus-Mothers know that when their infants' arms are cut in four places near to each. other, and that what is erroneously called a * fine arm" results, the scars often become confiuent, that is, run together, leaving one scar; whereas, when the poisonous matter does not "take well," the wounds remain separate and are counted as distinct scars. What is the common-sense inference? Why, that where the child is healthy and has power to: resist the virus, then the system is least injured, and consequently it has a greater power to. resist smallpox, As to Dr. Furley, of Edinburgh, wanting to vaccinate people who have already got smallpox, even the Lancet says. that theory needs further proof. Then Drs, Seaton and Buchanan are quoted; but. here again their testimony tells against vaccination with people of common-sense. 'Veritas' ought to know that sickly children are by law exempt from this disgusting and dangerous practice ; and in any epidemic it is the weak who succumb. All the books named have been reviewed, exposed, and refuted, over and over again in the <Anti-vaccinator. The true preventive of smallpox, as of all other diseases, is to live a pure and temperate life: filthy nostrums only gull and poison the people. Henry Pitman Manchester. The Revival of Old Superstitions,-The timid man in Theophrastus, going on shipboard, inquires of his fellow-passengers whether they have been initiated, implying (says Dr. Dollinger) the presence of a single uninitiated person might endanger the safety of all. In what respect does this. superstition of past ages differ from that of our days, which says the presence of a single unvaccinated individual endangers the safety of allP Vico says--"A corrupted people is more cruel in its latest than in its earliest stage of civilisation. In the earlier stage it is crucl by nature; in the later by creed. The first was angry, but generous; an enemy might defend himself or fly. The later stage, not less cruel, is cowardly and perfidious: it 1s in pretending to save that it oves to strike."-La Scienza Nuova. ya The: Anti-Vaccinator: and " [Suly. 15, 1872. Hurst.~1- have been had up once again at the Ashton Town Hall, for the non-vaccination of my child, and fined 20/- and costs (which amounted this time to 30/6), the Registrar saying that he must press for the full penalty in this case, since I still neglected to comply with the law; and as smallpox was in Dukinfield (which is about. two miles from my house), and vaccination was the only known preventive, he really must presg for the utmost penalty, with the aforesaid result. As my circumstances won't, at the present time, allow me to continue paying such heavy fines as these, I shall be obliged either to go to prison, or sell my goods and leave the country; for I am more determined than ever that the mark of the beast shall not be impressed on the person of my child. It is such oppressive laws as these which cause revoimtions, and sow the seeds of a nation's downfall._-_James Burgess. Oldham.-JI enclose you a copy of the Oldham Standard, containing a letter on the subject, which IT was induced to pen through reading the Rey. Mr. Hume-Rothery's remarks at the reeent Anti-vaecination meeting at Middiecton, in which I felt much interested. I am happy to say, that my child ts still free from filthy lymph, and will remain so, the spite of the many threats lately received. One gentieman (a rate collector) called a fortnight ago, to hindly (4) inform. me that he had. seen a summons lying.in their office for me; so he would advise me to get it done, or it would be a 80/- job., His had been done, &c.. However, seeing I was not to be gulled, he soon retreated, evidently labourmge under the impression that I was case-proof. I have lost friends in the matter through daring to tell the truth, but don't. care for that: . Truth is very obnoxious to some persons; but it must and will come out. _I am surprised at the dulness of our townspeople in the matter. I-have.done my best with some of them, and with good success, but am not able single-handed to do as I would wish, I was happy, on visiting Newcastle-on-Tyne a few days ago, to see such vitality in the cause, and to observe such an interest being taken on the part. of the people, who were in every direction reading the large posters, which were conspicuous at almost every turn. I. wish such a. state of things existed here; but we may expect. better progress shortly, for although a non-voter, I certainly think that Mr. Cobbett will do us some service, judging' from his recent remarks. We. must end will have this accursed law repealed.-F'. G. Shaw. : Smatl-Pox afier Vaccination.-In the Gazette of Health for the year 1820, edited by Richard Reece, M.D., and several eminent physicians,-at page 439 occurs the following important admission, which is especially interesting at the present time :-'' Cases of smallpox after cowpox are become so. common, as no longer to excite any interest. In one family we lately met with, seven children were laid up with smallpox, all of whom had' been vaccinated, some _ eight years, and others four years ago."--William Young. of GARGS Erie a Ek SON July 15, 1872.)  . BT Vaccination ese: 'State as Se Imprisonment of Mr. Stokes. Our earnest and devoted friend, Mr. Stokes, of Holloway, has just visited us after his release from Coldbath Fields Prison, where he was incarcerated on Saturday, because he would not pay a fine the twelfth time for the non-vaccination of his children. He gives a horrible account of the state of humanity in the Christian institution in which he sojourned until Monday morning. It isa great pity that the humanised portion of the population know so little of the inside of such infernal dens. If they did so, there is no doubt but such places would soon be improved or abolished, as something which would disgtace the nobler characteristics of the lower animals. The 'preaching of the gospel" to the prisoners on Sunday was in good keeping with the profanity and inhuman unkindness with which the prisoners are treated all the time. The existence of such nurseries of human vice and demoralisation in the midst of a teeming population, is an abuse which society should not tolerate. But our wonderment reaches the acme when we consider that because intelligent and well-conducted citizens, the glory and strength of the State, will not succumb to the dictates of a barbarous and superstitious medical dogma, they must therefore be subjected to the grossest. degradation which human devilry can devise. If such is the genius of our Church and State, the population of these islands are very little above the position of abject slavery, and have a great deal more to fear than to be proud of in the spirit in which constitutional tyranny manifests itself. It seems that standing out for right and truth in the care of those dear ones whom God has placed under our protection, is one of the most damnable offences which the British subject can commit. If Mr. Stokes had murdered his child he would have been very much more comfortably located and respectfully treated than he was because he dared to exhibit his love of personal liberty and truth. If the State can devise machinery whereby it can extend this treatment to a larger proportion of its children, it will adopt the shortest way of ridding society of its obsolete barbarous rule. It would instruct our mealy-mouthed Ministry very much to see the blood boil, and hear the teeth grate, of a gentle and inoffensive man like Mr. Stokes, from the effect which a lesson in good citizenship supplied *by the State has had on him.-The Medium, June "14, 1872. Y | Brightlingsea. E _Mr. John Taylor, shoemaker, was summoned by fe. C. Bonner, the vaccination officer, for neglecting to have his child vaccinated within three months | from the date of birth, In reply to the Bench, Mr. } 3 | ee Bonner said it was one day in every three months that a Brightlingsea child could be vaccinated: but the Brightlingsea people were strongly opposed to vaccination, and would not-have it done till they were compelled. It was generally managed that the children had the whooping- cough, measles, or some other complaint, when the appointed day came round. -Defendant: I sent the child to Mr. Ling after Mr. Bonner's last notice, but he said he hadnt any stuff, and it must wait tillanother time. There were others served in the same way.-The Clerk (to Mr. Bonner) : Do you know anything about thisr--Mr. Bonner said defendant had told him so on the preceding Wednesday, but he did not think it was correct.-A woman in Court stepped forward, and said it was quite true, as her daughter had been served in the same way.-Dr. Bree: Suppose, then, a: child is born on the Ist May, he could not be vaccinated till July?-Mr. Bonner : Just so.-Dr. Bree: So long as such regulations as these exist, I don't see that-it is any use coming to us to compel vaccination ; the people have not sufficient opportunity. I never heard of such an arrangement in my life--The Chairman: The second case, against Elijah Cook, which is preciscly similar to the last, is also dismissed.-Mr. Formby thought the Board ought certainly to allow Taylor his expenses.-Dr. Bree: So do I.-No action was, however, taken ; and Mr. Bonner having promised to represent to the Board the opinion of" the Bench, the conversation dropped. Swindon. Mr. James Wood has been again fined the full penalty and costs, for refusing to allow two of his children to be vaccinated. Mr. 'T. Baker, barrister, appeared for the defence, and obtained a case for the superior court. We hear that Mr. Wood intends to emigrate. Middleton. At a large open-air meeting, held in the Market-place, to protest against vaccination, the following memorial to the Middleton magistrates was adopted unanimously : That this meeting respectfully satectriadiecs their worships, the Middleton Bench "of Magistrates, not henceforth to enforce the vaccination laws, which never had the sanction of the people of this country ; which, as proved by facts, are inadequate to prevent smallpox ; and which are. viewed asa grievous tyranny by all real lovers of freedom and justice. The meeting hopes that their worships will kindly accede to this request, inasmuch as it is within their discretion to admit reasonable excuse for non-compliance, or to limit the penalty to a merely nominal sum.-William Stamper, chairman. -The meeting was addressed by Mr. Ed, Heywood and Mr. Ridgway, of Manchester; Mr. B. Thorpe, and Mr. Hume-Rothery. Regret and sympathy was expressed at the repeated prosecution of Mr. Okell. The important letter from Mr. Cobbett, M.P., read by Mr. Hume-Rothery, is quoted from in another page. The Anti-Vaccinator. [July 15, 1872. Doctor Diet. By E. H. Smith. "The best physicians in the world are Dr. Diet, Dr. Quiet, and Dr. Merryman.''-Old Saying. A fine old man is this Dr. Diet, so good, so healthful, and kind, he is just as happy and full of fun as any man you can find; and his work is from the sum to sun, with fervent soul and mind. No matter what his enemies say about his singular notions of living plain, and keeping clear of the banquet's ' pleasant commotions ;"' they can't refute one word he says, any more than resist the oceans. The hearty laugh is frequently turned on the doctor, when he crosses the path of fools, who gape and stare, as though they could mock at his losses; "but one can afford," as the Doctor says, "to look over the ' braying' of asses." They think him the strangest man on earth, at 'splendid'? suppers and dinners , for he dare reject the richest viands, which make us the worst of sinners. Ah! they who control their appetites, are in the end the winners. And this good old man is never lame with the gout, that terrible evil! he needs no crutch, nor invalid chair, for his pains in pleasing the Devil! and from those men who suffer so, he scarce receives notice civil. His blood is not sluggish with disease, as it flows in its crimson tide; but pure as the sparkling streams that eush from the veins of the mountain side: no langour he feels all the day, and at night sweet slumbers are not denied. With elastic vigour "his nerves are strung," and cheer from his eye is beaming: and his cheeks are as bright as the rosy morn, when the brilliant sunlight is streaming ; and it makes one glad to see such a face, with a smile in each dimple gleaming. His breath is as sweet as the breath of flowers exhaled on the balmy air; and his teeth, that shine through his parted lips, are like rows of ivory fair; those diamond treasures alone are worth the crowns which sovereigns wear. ~ And never could filthy tobacco touch those lips of purest mould; he has fled from the sickening, loathsome smoke which from pipe and cigar has rolled, as though it were sent from the bottomless pit, to poison both the young and the old. The Doctor in his advice hath said the simplest food is the best; let cheerfulness be the seasoning sauce, for this makes the food digest much quicker than when with sour thoughts the mind is heavily pressed. Fear God, live pure, keep a conscience clear, be kind, be courteous, be true ; let Virtue dictate, and obey her voice in every act you do: Then pills and doctors will find less work, and a happy hfe will ensue. Vaccination and the Vaccination Laws: A Physical Curse, and a Class-Tyranny.-This is the title of a pamphlet just published by the Rev. Wm. Hume-Rothery, of Middleton, who is well known for his uncompromising hostility to State medicine and legalised blood - poisoning. A vast amount of sound argument and personal and _ scientific testimony against vaccination is here presented, and at small cost, the price being 2d, for 18 pages royal octavo, double column; 1/6 a dozen; or 10/- per hundred. 'We advise our readers to procure copies of this publication from the Author. A Determined Anti-vaccinator.- Mr Edward Foster, druggist, of Preston, who has earned some notoriety by his determined resistance of the orders of the magistrates to vaccinate his child, made his 17th appearance at the Preston police-court, yesterday, charged with refusing to obey an order made on the 38rd June last. After he had been allowed by the bench to enter into a lengthy denunciation of the "bestial practice'' of vaccination, and of the "persecution "' of the board of guardians, he was fined in the full penalty of 20/- and costs. This penalty makes the total amount that Mr. Foster has paid in fines and costs upwards of £12, and he reiterates his determination that his child shall not be vaccinated.-Liverpool Mercury, July 6, 1872. The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz.:- Single copy, for 6 months.......... 1s. 6d. Dos 12 S All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 80, Cookridge-street, Leeds. SSeS a = = - SS SS Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator. and  . a Edited by John Pickering Bats. S., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds, and Henry Pitman, Phonetic " Institute, 41, John Dalton Str eet, Mane hester. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Patoniyst er Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-vaccinator, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. heal All Communications to be sent to the one. 30, Cookr as Street, Leeds. No. §. | New Series. August: ve 1872, oe ue e Penny. Contents, i Page Re-JEMMEL-ALION o)0 sisi. olere%i0 ors, gobo geeoudnHS 113 A. Citizen's View of Vaccination............ 114 SRhrow ehiysicito the Dogs ws. oases be 114 Notes of a Tour through the Haunts of the smallPox im Leeds........... arhetahec cisteh ovens 115 Theological and Medical Dictation.......... 117 House of Commons ......... obeocodomenauor 118 Baagorial Article x..4600, <iie0 SLolalere fs voisyseolarareies 120 The Vaccination Controversy <.osssscccsess 22 Phe; Devaltand Vaccination, piste cs cere. "oe ols 123 Deputation to Mr. Pease, M.P. ....... Spo0 dle! Prosecutions :- Walsall, 125; Keighley ...... 126 GrIctAnOr Eee-VACEIMATION 2 cesses neces seuss 127 ream of an Anti-Vaccinator .........+..-- 128 News, &c.:-The Vaccination Act, 117; Vaccinating the Indians, 123; Preston, 127 Re-Jenner~ation. Dr. Pearson writes to Dr. Jenner :-'' In my patients the inflammation round the inoculated {parts has been inconsiderable; being the same Ikind of affection as in scarlatina. On telling 'Dr. Woodville that I had been anxious about your publishing the use of the caustic, he replied "That would have damned the whole business.' "' -Dr. Baron's Life of Jenner, i. 313. Dr. Jenner to J. Moore. - '' When I found Woodyille about to publish his pamphlet relative to the eruptive cases at the smallpox Hospital, I entreated him in the strongest terms not to do a thing that would so much disturb vhe progress of vaccination , Cases were shown to me at the Bak Bee Hospital of yicontaaa patients covered from head to foot with pustules as correct as if they had actually arisen from contagion, or been produced by inoculation." -i. 374. Dr. Jenner to R. Dunning, Esq. :-<'' The Medical Society of Portsmouth have reported cases of smallpox after vaccination, which are to be published in a few days. What a set of blockheads ! "-yol. ii. 837. '""smallpox has occurred after the most perfect vaccination,"-ii. 245, ''T have never seen but one fatal case of smallpox after vaccination during the whole course of my professional life.'"-Dr. Baron. Dr. Baron says:-"It can scarcely now be doubted that the unwillingness to believe that smallpox could occur twice in the same person, had suggested the expedient of getting rid of the difficulty by giving the disorder a new appellation." Dr. Jenner says:-''The great thing is, to place every man in a questionable point of view who presumes to inoculate for smallpox." Dr. Baron says :-'"Tf any person can receive re-vaccination, it proves that the vaccination had been imperfect.-ii. 255. Dr. Jenner to H. Hicks, Esq.-(On the method of disposing of the subscription to Jenner. )-'' I should make choice of a gold cup, with a device appropriate, What hive you of the cow jumping oyer,the moon?" I14   [August 1, 1872. Dr. Jenner to James Moore, lisq.-'' The action [of smallpox matter], I do not lke to call it morbid, because it is generally salutary." The same to the same :-'' Dr. P. [Pearson | is spreading smallpox through the land, and calling it the cowpox." Jenner wishes Moore, in his history of vaccination, to exercise severity against Dr. P., who insinuated that vaccination was good for nothing.-i. 383. The same to the same. 1812 :--'' Sir Francis of the Commons [Burdett] has been heard to say-' Cursed was the day on which vaccination tion was discovered.' " ''Dr, Jenner heard ''a murmur among medical people, that in many instances cowpox produced as many eruptions, and was attended with as much severity, as smallpox.'"'-1i, 341. Dr. Jenner wrote :-'' I wish my professional brethren may be slow to publish fatal cases of smallpox after vaccination." Dr. Pearson wrote to Jenner :-'' You cannot imagine how fastidious the people are with regard to the business of the cowpox. One says it is very filthy and nasty to derive it from the greasy heels of horses. Another says -'QO, my God, we shall introduce the diseases of animals amongst us; and we have too many already of our own. All this I hear very quietly." A Citizen's View of Vaccination. From the Hulme and Stretford Express (Manchester), June 29, 18:2. History teaches us that the health of any people has becn in proportion to their observance of the laws of health. In former ages the mass of mankind were-in profound ignorance of those eternal laws ; hence the fearful scourges which periodically decimated the nations. Sanitary science is now the most popular study of the day; and the people do not repine at stringent laws being enforced for the preservation of the public health. When there is no doubt that a certain practice is beneficial, there need be no scruple about enforcing it. Vaccination is a doubtful practice; and there isan old saying that ''when doctors disagree, disciples are set free." The vaccination controversy is interminable with those who quote statistics and have pet theories. Our aim in this brief article is simply to present a citizen's view of the subject-a man of average common sense, and one desirous of promoting the well-being of his family. He would probably argue thus: -I am healthy, for which I thank Heaven and my parents; my children are healthy, and I wish to keep them so, -smallpox, I believe, is caused by neglecting the laws of health, that is-by breathing foul air, eating and drinking impure and stimulating food, keeping the pores of the skin clogged with dirt, &c. By strict attention to cleanliness my family have escaped the smallpox ; nor do I fear it. Rationally treated, it is not a dangerous disease ; and even in times when it is epidemic, the general mortality is not increased. To attempt to prevent smallpox by imparting a nameless disease, I regard as insanity, not science. In the words of Mr. Cobbett, the M.P. for Oldham -' The world has gone mad upon this subject. The vaccination laws are tyrannical, and vaccination itself is a dangerous practice." The compulsory law is tyrannical, because it seeks to impose a doubtful medical practice upon the entire community. at the bidding of a certain school of doctors. No doctor can tell you what the vaccine stuff is, nor can he guarantee that some blood disease, worse than smallpox, will not result from the operation. There is no vaccination now from the cow; the lymph, so called, is the corrupt matter which has been transferred from one arm to another for seventy years. You must find me 'pure lymph' first, and then I will give you other reasons for refusing to submit my children to such quackery. Vaccination is not really 'compulsory.' I prefer fine or imprisonment, with health and liberty of conscience. There is no excuse for attempting to force the practice on unwilling parents, for if vaccination be a protection, the unvaccinated can do no harm; and if it be not a protection (and of that Iam as certain as I am of my own existence) penalties upon the conscientious only bring this bad law, and good laws also, into contempt." 'This is the line of argument we frequently hear. If any of our medical readers can answer it, let them do so. We observe that Mr. Pease, M.P., will bring his Bill before Parliament on the 10th July. Its object is to limit the penalty for non-vaccination. Government is pledged to support it; an interesting debate may therefore be expected. Thrate Albnsic to the Dogs." The first physicians by debauch were made, excess began and sloth sustains the trade. By chase our long-lived fathers earned their food ; toil strung the nerves, and purified the blood : but we, their sons, a pampered race of men, are dwindled down to three-score years and ten. Better to hunt in fields for health unbought, than fee the doctor for a nauseous draught. The wise, for cure, on exercise depend; God never made His works for man to mend. -Dryden, August 1, 1872.]  . Notes of a Tour Through the Haunts of the smallPox in Leeds. By Jno: -Pickering, F.8.S. (Continued from page 102.) It would be of no use to multiply instinces showing that the 74 Leeds cases were all of the two kinds fairly included under the heads adverted to in the first article, viz :- 1. Persons living in unsanitary conditions. 2. Persons whose health is depreciated, either from excesses of one kind or other, or from hereditary taint. I can assure the reader, that the history of each individual case would establish the theory. And let me further say, that future inquiries elsewhere-and investigations are now going on in other towns-will illustrate and confirm the truthfulness of the arguments upon which the theory rests. I shall now proceed with a few more narrations of actual conversation with the poor, and which serve to enforce other important facts. lst. How the poor estimate vaccination, the law which enforces wt, and the officials who carry out its provisions. Relation VI.-In a court situate at the back of a principal thoroughfare, and in one of the most populous districts, I inquired for the home of a smallpox patient. "TI hope," said the woman, "you are not after fining the people; are youf" "*No," I said; "I am one of those who pay fines, 'rather than submit to vaccination." "Are you?' ishe said; ''and so would I, if I could; but we be poor.' When the woman felt assured she was safe 'in speaking her mind, she spoke as follows :-* Sir, \I hate vaccination, and all its belongings. My two \first were both done, and they have had sore eyes 'both of them ever since ; and the doctor said it was in consequence of bad matter: and they've always ibeen ailing bairns. I've three more: not one of them has been done, and three healthier bairns there cannot be. I know dozens of mothers that hate it as much as Ido: and when Holmes (the inspector) comes into the neighbourhood, we shut our doors, pull down the blinds, and go upstairs till he's gone; ichat's how we trick him." I left the woman grateful to think that she had for once met with sympathy, instead of impudence and persecution. 118 Thank Heaven there are hundreds of mothers who refuse to bow the knee to this detested Baal! Their poverty is a reasonable excuse fur any lack of power to resist the law, but their opposition to vaccination is nevertheless as conscientious and intelligent as that of hundreds whose resistance is open and vigorous, the only difference igs that one can afford to pay, and the other cannot. The poor have always been opposed to vaccination, as they were to inoculation, and their impeachment of the last-mentioned rite first brought it into disrepute. On the matter of vaccination, history may repeat itself once more. Relation VII.-The next house I came to, and in the same district as the above, I found an Irishwoman, fluent in speech, one of the sturdy type, honest, and hard-working. "Well, my good woman," I observed, "and so you have had the smallpox in the house." "Yes," she replied, " but it's gone and left no marks here." "How is that, pray" Lasked. " Before I tell you that," she said, "let me know what brings you to me?" "A very proper question, indeed, since the spy is out amongst you, and informing is regarded as an honest trade," I remarked. ''That's the right ring," sho said ; "bat we can't always say what we think. We must know who we are talking to." "Just tell me," I asked, "dare you not say to your doctor what you say to me?" "Not a bit of it," she quickly answered. "Jf I said a word against vaccination, the doctor would storm for a month. He knows T have two not vaccinated, and he said last week he should have to report it, when I should be fincd. Fine me (I said); do it, and you'll soon find me in Armley Gaol when you want me. J go a newrsing for the doctor. sometimes, you see.' "Do you mean to say,' I inquired, "that you would go to prison sooner than vaccinate?" With her arm uplifted, her fist clenched, and every muscle of her body in unison with her speech, " Yes, that I would, to ten prisons. I've seen too much on tt ever to do another." " Are you a martyr, then, to vaccination ?"' I asked. 'J am," she said; "and my blood boils when I think of what he suffered. We was just poisoned, and nothing else, and the doctor knows it, and I gave him a bit of my mind at the time." The neighbours kept dropping in one by one, attracted by the energy of the woman's specch, and there was 1:0 want of sympathy in her views. I believe, most religiously, that if the poor were eanvassed from house to house, three-fourths of their number would give their testimony against Jennerism. I never listened to a better Anti-vaccination lecture than that of the Irish nurse above alluded to. When I had got some little distance from the spot, I returned to put a question, and the women were still there, discussing the evils of vaccination, I reminded nurse that she had forgotten to tell me how it was that the smallpox, in the instance of her own child, had left no marks behind it. "O yes," said she ; "the child has had them very mild. I never doctored it. The doctor said I knew how to 116   [August 1, 1872. treat it better than he did. I washed and nursed it well; and it has not a mark about it." ' Then," I said, "of the two evils, vaccination or the smallpox , suppose you were obliged to choose one, perhaps you would prefer the latter-smallpox ?"' "Aye," she replied, "'ten times sooner: we know what small: pox ts, but neither doctor nor anybody else knows what vaccination is ! Bless you, sir, I could talk for a month on this subject, for I have seen the mischief it has produced in hundreds of cases ; and we are all opposed to it; but where's the useF We can't afford to resist." Relation VIII.-In the evening of the same day I pursued my inquiries in a district not far from the cholera sheds. As that part of the town is newly built, the streets a good width, and the houses of a much better class, I scarcely expected to find the smallpox in that locality ; but there had been two or three cases in the neighbourhood. One of them was that of a youth who had not passed his fifteenth year. The lad had been vaccinated. It was a matter of wonder how the smallpox had seized him. 'The youth could not have got it by contact, nor could his parents trace the disease up to its source: they were puzzled with it, so they said, and the poor souls were sincere enough. Judging from the exterior of the house, no man would have regarded it as at all ikely for the smallpox to take up its quarters there. J saw how it was in a trice, and my nose helped me to form a right conclusion. I was amazed to find people in a respectable neighbourhood, with a family of seven children, many of whom were at constant work, living in such filth and wretchedness. Both parents objected to vaccination, and could argue against it; but they had not the sense to see that in the absence of cleanliness, vaccinated or unvaccinated, they were exposing their children to disease in its ever-varying shapes. I had little taste to converse with this family, for passion and bad habits of long standing had written their characters upon their faces. Instead of making the home healthy, the children comfortable and cleanly, they spent their money in "drink." OhA, how bitter is the curse of drunkenness! But for this, the smallpox would have been as great a stranger to their home as it is to mine, and they might have been able to resist a rite which they hated as much as I do. Relation I[X.-The following evening, in the North Ward, I saw a poor woman who had lost one child out of three by vaccination. She lived in close proximity to one of the "74" patients, and when she learnt my errand, she added her little story to swell the ranks of the opposition. 'I had a sweet little boy, sir : he was only four months old when he had to be vaccinated. I took him to the station to be done. I told the doctor I could not bide to see him cut it, so he savagely took him out of my arms, and gave him to another woman to hold while he did it. The poor thing cried, frightened like, and when the doctor gave him back to me, I shall never forget his look. He seemed to say to me-' Mother, what did you let him do that for?' I took him home; he seemed smitten from that very hour; he never looked up again, and he died in dreadful agony in less than six weeks. J see that look now, and I shall see it as long as I live." "Then," I said, ""you have good cause for being opposed to vaccination : but what reason have you for believing it to be bad, apart from the loss of your child?"? "I have good reason," she answered. "What is,vaccination? It is all rottenness: and how can a disease save us from smallpox? Besides, it doesn't; all that I know that have had smallpox have been vaccinated ; thén, where's the good of it? It is alla money-making concern, and the doctors know that.' 'Why do you not oppose it, then ?"' I said. 'How can we oppose it, sir?" she replied, with warmth. ' When we have to go for relief, we must see the doctor; when we go to the workhouse, we see him there; at the dispensary, he is there. We dare not oppose the doctors." Relation X.-On reaching home, an aged woman was waiting to see me, having received a notice from the inspector to have her grand-child vaccinated. Nearly twenty years ago she lost one of her own children by its being "done,'' as the phrase goes, with '"'bad matter," and for that space of time the recollection of the sufferings of her child has been an ever-present affliction, and I question very much if a single day, during the whole of that period, has passed without thinking more or less of her lost child. Her hatred of vaccination is what the doctor would calla mania, but with her it is almost the religion of her life. 'I have come up," said the poor woman, "to ask you if there is a chance of Mr. Pease's Bill becoming law this session? Can you tell me?" ' Well," I replied; "it is very doubtful if it will pass; still, I am not without hope." "Sir," she said, "'I will tell you what agitates my mind. I am always thinking that if Parliament does not pass the bill, they will end in making the law more stringent than it is, and that would be worse than ever." '' How could they make it worse than ever?" Tasked. "It would be worse if they made it imprisonment instead of fines: we can pay the fines, but we could not stand against imprisonment. What would the wife do if the bread-winner was in jail?'"' 'Do you think," I observed, " that Parliament dares to pass such a law?" 'Oh,' she answered, bursting into a flood of tears, "I have no faith in them doctors ; they carried vaccination, and they could carry something worse if they tried. I wish things mayn't be worse before they are better. I often pray that things may be continued as they are, afraid something worse should be made into law." When she had gone, I remembered an anecdote, which, at the time I heard it, struck me | as having some philosophy in it: the reader shall - have it -- The last days of Dionysius, the tyrant of Syracuse, were embittered by the fear that he should one day fall by the hand of a traitor. Having heard, however, that there was an aged August 1, 1872.]  . 117 woman in his dominions who besought the gods daily to spare his life, he sent for her-(as well he might)-to inquire why she took so great an interest in his welfare. She made bold reply-'In my infancy IJ lived under an abominable prince, whose death I desired; but, when he perished, he was succeeded by a detestable tyrant worse than himself. I offered up my vows for his death also, which were in like manner answered; but we have since had a 'worse tyrant than he. This execrable monster is yourself, whose life I have prayed for, lest, if it be possible, you should be succeeded by one even more wicked."' smallpox inoculation was an open and fair enemy ; we could estimate the character and extent of the disease and death which followed in its track ; but vaccination is a wily subtle foe, whose depredations on the health and life of the people are carried on so secretly that we hear not its footfall; we do not see the hand that smites, nor do we suspect that we live beneath the yoke of such a tyrant. To follow the example of the subject of Dionysius, and pray for vaccination to be continued lest a worse evil should succeed it, would be unphitosophical in the extreme, because it is the worst already, and, come what may, the next change will be for the better. Shall we for ever ' worship the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king hath set up ?" Arise, ye poor, and, with your-help, we will cast down these false gods; we will break these images in pieces, and show the high priests of the medical profession that we will be free from their enchantments: and let us return to our allegiance to Him who desires not our death, but our life, and, to secure that, has left for our guidance the divinest of all injunctions- "' Wash, and be clean."' Vaccinator, beware! Upraise not that arm again thus to insult the best of all God's work to His face. Man is the noblest handiwork of the Creator. If it were not for His mercy, whose goodness is over all His works, the hand that dares to invade the fount of life at its source, and intermix therewith the elements of a foul secretion, would fall at thy side helpless and withered. The fate of the sorcerer, whose name shall not perish, may yet be thine. Ye ministers of religion, ye who stand daily between the living and the dead, and plead the cause of this great nation before the majesty of heaven, we ask you to ''perform a lustration'"' to purge our land from this deep and deadly crime. Why are your voices silent? Have ye nothing to say for God in this matter' Cannot ye vindicate His ways and His perfections, and save our children from a circumcision of pollution which we hate and abhor, and deliver the people from a ceremonial which should only be found in a land where the light of science has not yet dawned, and where religion has no higher meaning than superstition ? (To be continued.) ----na. - Theological and Medical Dictation. (From The Times, June 18, 1872.) "Yesterday, the Bishop of Manchester preached at Trinity Church, Conduit-street. Referring to the right of free inquiry in religious matters, he said that 'the Church of Rome, acting on what appeared to be a natural tendency in all dominant churches, had tried to impose a new law on men's minds, which had been a signal failure. Men would not be excommunicated, or anathematized, or dragooned, or tortured into thinking what they did not think, or saying what they did not believe. In countries where this church was supreme, there was said to be almost universally a festering ulcer of unbelief, under a thin skin of artificial faith. That system which did not claim to speak with mere authority, but condescended to give reasons to those who asked for them; which was favourable to reverent inquiry, and did not condemn the efforts of the human mind to enlarge the domain of the truth,-would be the church of the age that was coming.' "' The Bishop of Manchester would be the last man in the world to apply these remarks to the thing he is 'inclined to," and to ignore their application to the thing he has '"'no mind to." They are equally applicable to religious and to medical overbearing. Yet the number of pamphlets, lectures, and speeches in defence of the religious body, is out of all proportion to the few-and-far-between attempts to defend vaccination : perhaps on account of the Specially very thin skin of artificial faith under which it is held. The Vaecination Act.-A singular case under the Vaccination Act came before the Reigate Bench on Monday. Mary Ann, wife of William Pace, labourer, of Abinger, was summoned for refusing to permit the public vaccinator to extract lymph from her child's arm.- Mr. Chaldecott, one of the public vaccinators under the Board of Guardians, proved that on the 6th April he vaccinated the defendant's child, and on the 18th it was brought to him for inspection. He then wished to take lymph from the child's arm, but the defendant positively refused to permit him to do so. He told her the law was against her; but she still refused, saying she did not like it. Her refusal entailed a double journey on other women who had brought their children to be vaccinated. The Bench, believing the defendant's conduct had been due to her ignorance, inflicted a penalty of 1/- only, remitting the costs, but said if any similar case came before them in future they would inflict a heavier penalty.-Croydon Advertiser, June 1d, [This case is, unfortunately, not a "singular" one. We have reports from many quarters of parents having been fined for refusing to allow their children to be made poison-purveyors, Better by far oppose the Act entirely. ] 118   [August 1, 1872. Fiouse of Commons. (From the Times, July 10, 1872.) Vaccination Acts Amendment Bill. Mr. Pease, in moving the second reading of this bill, said there was a strong feeling among his constituents in favour of a limitation of the penalties imposed by the Vaccination Act of last year. For his own part, he was a firm 'believer in the efficacy of vaccination. There was, no doubt, a strong feeling in the country against the excessive penalties which could be inflicted under the law as it at present stood. The committee which sat in 1871, by whom the whole subject of vaccination was considered, recommended that the penalty should not be repeatedly inflicted, and that provision was inserted in the bill introduced by the Government last year. The provision was supported in the House of Commons by a large majority, but was struck out in the House of Lords by a majority of 1, 15 peers taking part in the division, and the amendment thus made was accepted by the Government as the only chance of passing the bill that session. The hon. member then quoted opinions to show that vaccination was occasionally attended with serious results, deducing therefrom the inference that the conscientious scruples of parents ought to be respected. The law was one intended to do people good against their will, but it went far beyond the recognised principle that punishment purged the offence. In many instances men were fined over and over again, and in one case in London a man had had eight distress warrants issued against him in fourteen months, in respect to the non-vaccination of three children. The children in such cases were not vaccinated, in spite of the interposition of the law, and the law itself consequently fell into disrepute. The strongest case was one in which a parent had been five times committed to gaol, and had to undergo all the discipline of a prison, for refusing to permit his child to be vaccinated. He believed the adoption of his measure would practically do a great deal more in the way of securing general vaccination, than the leaving the law in its present state; and he trusted, therefore, that the House would accord it a second reading. Mr. Monk thought the proposal of the hon. member for Durham singularly inopportune, considering that traces of the late serious outbreak of smallpox were still lingering.on our thresholds. The bill, in reality, invited disobedience to the law, and gave to parents a practical impunity in the case of their continued contumacy. He moved that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. | Mr. C. Read, in seconding the amendment, said that Clause 10 of the Government Bill of last year, which was really the bill of the hon. member opposite, was one which would convert compulsory vaccination into a sham. He had stayed in the House last session, morning after morning, for six weeks, with a view of opposing the clause; but on the 15th of August he went to bed at one o'clock, and when he rose he found, from the Zimes, that the Vaccination Bill had passed through committee. The proposal now made amounted in fact to this- that a man, by throwing down a sovereign before the justices, should be empowered to break the law. No doubt there were many who regarded the repetition of the punishment as a sort of martyrdom, and who gloried in incurring it; but he was one of those who thought that if a man was sufficiently pertinacious to continue this kind of martyrdom, the law ought to be strong enough to knock it out of him in time. He was quite aware that the present state of the law required improvement. He thought that the registration of births ought to be made compulsory, and that there ought to exist better means of securing a good supply of pure lymph. It might be asked-Would they have the child taken by the police from the mother's breast, and handed over_to the public vaccinator? They were now, however, applying the principle of compulsion to the education of children, and he did not see why they should not equally apply it to vaccination, which might be the means of saving the child's life, and also of preserving the public health. Dr. Playfair, as a member of the committee which came to a unanimous resolution to recommend the basis of that measure, wished to say that nothing which he -had done since he entered Parliament had given him so much pain as having consented to that resolution. If it had not been for the respect he had felt for the judgment of the Vice-President of the Council, the chairman of the committee, who had assured them that vaccination would be promoted instead of retarded by it, he would have divided the committee on the subject. The more, however, he had since considered the matter, the more he felt unwilling to accept the absurd principle involved in this bill-namely, that if a man broke the law twice he should be severely punished, but if he broke it four times he should go entirely free. It had been urged that this measure would form a sort of safety-valve for the working of the vaccination law; but, on reflection, he did not believe that it would prove anything of the kind. What respect would the poor be likely to have for an act which practically sold an indulgence to break the law for 20s., or at a comparatively cheap rate to the rich,and at an enormous price to the poor? The supporters of the bill could not deny that the vaccination law was working well in mitigating a ~ terrible disease; but they introduced the measure simply because there was prejudice in some people's minds against vaccination. The object of the vaccination law was not only to save individual persons from a loathsome disease, but also to prevent them from becoming centres for the spread of contagion among the rest of the community. He must, on these grounds, vote against the present bill. August 1, 1872.]  . 119 Mr. Harvey Lewis said there was among certain classes a widespread feeling, which he did not share, against compulsory vaccination, arising (in: some degree, at least) from the careless manner in which the operation had been performed, and the bad quality of the lymph employed. He held in his hand a document put forward by the Anti-vaccination tion Association, which he thought was creditable to that body. The society said that while they approved the motives of the author of that bill in limiting the penalty in the way he did, they nevertheless believed that its effect would be to sell an immunity to those who could atford to pay for it, and to leave the poor still under the lash of the law. Entertaining that opinion himself, he could not vote for the second reading of the measure. Mr. Cave would certainly give his vote against the bill. He had been induced, as a member of the committee, to support the limitation to which objection had been taken, by the evidence chiefly of Dr. Simon, who stated that what they wanted to do was to catch the careless and negligent parents; but there were very few parents who had conscientious objections to vaccination, and it was desirable in those instances that there should be no semblance of persecution for conscience' sake. The question, therefore, was not so plain and simple as some hon. gentlemen had put it. There was also evidence of some cases in which vaccination had been positively injurious from having been badly performed ; and, under those circumstances, were they to go on punishing persons who strongly objected to have their children vaccinated? But with regard to parents who were simply careless and negligent, Dr. Simon thought that the infliction of a small fine in the first instance, and a heavier one afterwards, would induce those parents to have their children vaccinated, and in that way the really serious evil would be got rid of. Before the committee, the arguments of the Anti-vaccination Society entirely broke down, and it was proved that vaccination was 'most efficacious when properly performed, and, therefore, the committee thought it ought to be made compulsory on the community in general. He confessed that he had shared the doubts expressed | by the hon. member for the University of Edinburgh jas to the effect of the limitation referred to, and he 'had assented to it only as being, perhaps, the least jof two evils. But Parliament having chosen' to pass ja different act, and upset the recommendation of the jcommittee, he thought it would be much better that jthe law should remain unaltered as it now stood, juntil, at any rate, the experiment had been tried for va longer period, in which case the opposition to vaccination would probably die out by degrees. Mr. W. E, Forster regarded that as a very difficult question. Indeed, he did not know that he had ever been engaged in any inquiry that was more 30. 'The members of the committee, even including the hon. member for the University of Edinburgh, who had now recanted his previous opinion, would [ul acknowledge the difficulty of the subject. When they came to deal with matters involving an interference between parent and child, if they were bent on being strictly logical in carrying out the principle of compulsion, there could be no doubt that their practical difficulties would be enormous. What they wanted to do was, to apply to a terrible disease the greatest check and prevention which they could arrive at; and it was a question whether, after all, it was expedient to go on punishing again and again a few persons who objected conscientiously to vaccination. There was a laree number of parents who simply neglected to have their children vaccinated, and who had no feeling against it; while there were others, again-not so numerous-who were perfectly reckless about the matter. The infliction of a penalty would mect the case of both those classes. Then as to the small number of persons who had a strong and positive objection to vaccination-he thought if would conduce to the well-working of the act if they had as little to do with that class as possible. As it would hardly be proposed that they should take their children by force to be vaccinated, to go on punishing the parents would excite a prejudice against that valuable remedy, and perhaps, in the end, prevent more children from being vaccinated than would otherwise be the case. They once had a Member in that House whom nothing would induce to have his child vaccinated. Under the existing act the rich man practically could-and he believed in some instances would-defy the law. Therefore, it was not a question of substituting by the present bill an unequal for an equal law as between rich and poor. In conclusion, he felt still inclined to take the view he took last year on that matter; but he put it to the hon. member who had charge of the bill, whether, with the strong feeling eyidently existing | in the House, he would not postpone his measure, and allow the present law to continue working for another year or two, when it was possible that the opinions of the Anti-vaccination Society might cease to be held. Mr. Candlish expressed his astonishment at the course pursued that day by the hon. member for the University of Hdinburgh. That hon. gentleman had changed his opinion on that question no fewer than four times since 1870-a fact which must detract from the weight of his authority. The Bill before the House did not repeal the present law, but only modified its penalties, to relieve those who could not and would not consent to have their children vaccinated.-The hon. member was proceeding with his remarks, when, a quarter to six o'clock being near at hand, he was met with cries of '"' Divide,' to which he replied that he could not assent to a division being taken on the question as it then stood before the House. He was still pursuing his argument when the clock indicated a quarter to six, and by the rules of the House the debate stood adjourned, 120   [August 1, 1872. The Antt-Gacetwator. + August 1st, 1872. There is one thing in this world for which, in ertremis, men have offered princely fortunes, and yet there is no one thing of which we are so lavish, there is nothing so cheap, nothing so dear, as hfe. Cheap, because when we are in health we do not care to preserve it; and in sickness physicians will not learn how, by sanitary appliances, to restore the body to its normal state. Dear, because when life is in the balance, and we are brought face to face with death, the future a blank, and the past a failure, the world itself could not bring back a single day of all those which have been lost, nor add another to the number. 'I have lost aday." What a trifle-a thing insignificant when contrasted with him who can say-'' I have lost a life." Ifthe present were estimated at its real yalue-a state of probation in which the complexion of the next life is dependent upon the colouring we give to this-how differently all our actions would be ordered. The body, the channel through which the operations of mind are conducted, would then be an object of solicitude and regard, and men would not transgress against those great sanitary laws which should rule and govern every member of the body politic. He who sins against his body, sins against the soul, for there is a reciprocity of action-they act and react upon each other. We have heard men say-'" I cannot remember the day when I last drank a glass of water;" and another- ''It is years since I had a bath." See yonder plant in the shrubbery, the pores choked with smoke and dust, and the soil round the roots dry and parched ; and then observe it after the night's rain, how each leaf is stretched out in the vigour of its life, and how the flower opens its petals to absorb the warm rays of the sun. So he who lives an unsanitary life-his skin inactive, each separate pore choked up, the functions of his stomach injured by drinking habits, smoking, and excessive eating, and the system without tone and energy, and more or less depressed for want of fresh air and exercise -how can such aman be said to live? With ~ a body like this, the mind has no chance of developing its powers; and to stimulate the brain to think about anything but the necessities of business pursuits (which, after a time, become mechanical), is a hopeless task; and the great object of man's mission here is sacrificed to mere animal gratifications. We have known many men who have lived this life, are living it to-day; and the latter are passing (as the others have passed away) mere cumberers of the ground, waiting for the fiat to be issued- "Cut it down.' To preach to such a man about the science of life, to ask him to submit his body, and those of his household, to the beneficent regulations of sanitary laws, would be time mis-spent: it is sad to feel that they must die aS they have lived; it would take ''a miracle" to save them either for the present or the future. So with the unsanitary practice of vaccination: there are old men, both in and out of the profession, whose prejudices are as deeply rooted as their earliest memories, and to attempt to reason them out of their faith would be a waste of effort, an expenditure of strength for nought. There are those, nevertheless, who even to old age can take in new ideas, or examine old ones, with all the freshness, the earnestness, and pleasure of their youthful days: but ask them the secret, and it will be found that they have lived up to nature's laws ; they have abjured the irregularities and the follies which are fatal to so many, and the mind retains its hold to the last. We have - frequently, in a short conversation, put this - vaccination controversy in such a light that, when we left them, such men have said - 'How can this thing have existed so long without being challenged?' To an earnest - and correct thinker the whole bearings of the case are apprehended almost at a glance. At an Anti-vaccination meeting a short time ago, an aged politician, after listening for some time, got up and said-'' Sir, I have in my simplicity August 1, 1872.]  . i2i thought that, after having lyed to see every man in possession of the franchise, I had nothing else of a public nature to live for; but after being here tonight for half-an-hour, this matter has presented itsclf to my mind in such a form, that I shall pray to be spared to see the compulsory vaccination laws repealed. I am an old man now, butI must not die to leave this thing behind." After hearing that speech the man's past history revealed itself; the cast of | his mind was judicial; he saw through the flimsy logic of Jenner, and of those who follow in his footsteps; and the sin of the practice rose up and shook itself before him as a lion in the path, which must be overcome and destroyed before he could lie down and die in peace, the type ofa true man! With such helpers, labour is sweet, and rest is burdensome till the day dawns that shall witness the last of vaccination. If men would only think, if they would fairly examine all those arts and _ practices, artificial diseases, and unnatural and unsanitary remedies which abound, each one of which has its influence in prolonging or limiting the range of human life, they would discern how the natural tendency of a practice like that under discussion is attended with perils of such magnitude, that the remedy-vaccination-is seen to be an eyil infinitely more portentous than the disease-smallpox. There are thousands of children in this land of ours, who at three months of age, have. had a disease engrafted upon the body, which, by impairing its functions, has operated to bight the faculties, to limit the range of its future usefulness, and to place the child for the rest of its days at a serious disadvantage. 'That such consequences have arisen in this way is well known, and no man has a right so to endanger the future health and happiness of a treasure which God has committed to his keeping. of all men, should be the first to abjure so pernicious a custom-the last to practise it. The physician, Vaccination cannot live long. Newadherents, amongst all classes, are springing up daily, and each one, by a strange fatality, seems to have a i} special grievance against our common enemy ; for as soon as men begin to reflect and to inquire within the sphere of their own circle, they find no difficulty in tracing a connection between vaccination and disease. It was only afew days since that a gentleman obseryed- '"<It is very singular; but now that I think of it, | remember hearing my mother say that she blamed vaccination for first sending my sister wrong: do you believe that mania is communicable by vaccination?" ''We have no doubt of it," was our reply. '' We firmly believe that any disease-nay, any hereditary taint-- may be invaccinated."" And why should we not beheve it? Itis a conclusion both reasonable and rational. And, were it not for a sequence so apparent, we should be at a loss to comprehend how it is that so many diseases are on the increase: with this explanation before us, the problem is solved. He who cares to secure that inestimable blessing, ""a pure mind in a pure body," and to leave that inheritance to his children, must henceforth wage war against this '"'early poisoning" practice, and see to it that he learns, first of all, the grand necessity under which he labours to know what are those simple sanitary laws which promote bodily health, and then to observe them rigidly, both in his own person and in his household. There is no protective, no prophylactic, within the dominion of nature, of science, or of art, which can compare with the ''system of treatment" which the birthright of each individual in our land-the inahenable heritage of all. That condition of the body which protects from the invasion of disease is the best shield against the shafts of death. Pure air, food, and water, combined with personal and domestic cleanliness, are the only specifics with which to resist the action of the zymotic principle so destructive to health, and so fatal when it assumes the character of an endemic or epidemic. And yet, how many there are who will smile at such an assertion! Last year some members of the Leeds Board of Guardians met to inquire into an alleged case of transmission of disease. There were present is T22   , [August 1, 1872. the chairman of the board, three guardians, and two magistrates, the latter are ex-officio guardians, and one of them is a surgeon of some eminence. Besides these, one of the surgeons to the Union was in attendance, and the services of Dr. Allbutt were also secured. 'The inquiry, after all the fanfaronade, ended in the usual way-that in the particular case under investigation vaccination was not the cause of death- it was something else. That mage int be so; but the object we have before us is to give pt aera to the following statement, made by Dr. Alibutt, who, addressing himself to a guardian, who is a notorious Mate -vaceinator, said :- 'You might as well try to prevent the swallows from building their nests in your eaves, 'by cleansing your haenuses, as try to stamp out the smallpox by ska measures." What stupid ae) as What has stamped out the pestilences of the middle ages-t! black-death, 'the dau sickness, eta plague? Sanitation! and nothing sanitary measures will not stamp out the smallpox, what on earth will do it? Will physic? No, verily, for the profession admit they have no treatment for it. Will vaceination? Pshaw! it has been tried for a period of seventy-two years, and failure has marked every step. Are we, then, to regard the smallpox in the same light as the collier looks upon the coal-pit, or the miner the mine, and view it as a sort of perpetual endowment, or annuity, to the profession, or the gift of a special Providence? Take the map of Leeds, or any other town or city in England, and point out the most unsanitary parts or districts, and we will describe the circle where smallpox and other fevers find their food and sustenance. Let us have no more dissembling in such matters. The sanitarian knows that he alone 'holds the key in his hand which will unlock the storehouse of nature, and, by enforcing and bringing into practice the mighty apphances of sanitary science, the smallpox, along with other diseases of the zymotic type, must eventually retire from the stage of hfe, and nations shall no longer be subject to their sway. We can goo out the smallpox by "sanitary measure s, but not till the doctor and _ his to gy the else, "4a colleagues cease from stamping it in. They who sow tares must reap tares, and they who sow smallpox must reap smallpox. They who open the vein and artery, and instil into them a poison virus, should exhibit no disappointment if the natural harvest is one of disease and death. Nero recited verses while two- thirds of Rome was burning; and so the faculty beguile us with their charms and prophylactics, while two-thirds of the children that are born to us have to submit to an abominable rite, and one-half the children that are born see not a tenth summer ! The Vaccination Controversy. Letters for and against vaccination continue to appear in the Leigh Times. 'The editor of that paper has set the Press a good example in allowing both sides a fair hearing. Hisremarks show that he is inclined to give medical men the benefit of any unsettled " balance of opinion." We quote from the leading article of June 29 :-- Many of our readers will probably have read with interest the letters on the vaccination question which have lately appeared in these columns. The question whether vaccination is or is not of value, is one which, although it has already been discussed with ereat ability by the learned, is by no means exhausted. We desire, however, to point out that little real good can result from its discussion by persons who have only a bare theoretical knowledge of the question, and that it should be left with those thoroughly skilled in matters of this kind. We are not now making any reflection upon those correspondents. who have lately been writing in our columns, for we gladly admit that both sides have shown themselves competent controversialists ; but we refer rather to certain hot-headed partisans who seem wilfully to shut their ears against all facts which might damage their side of the argument. We ourselves do not pretend to have professional knowledge, and we willingly confess that much may be said on both sides; but, after paying some attention to the question, we believe it is an indisputable fact that the balance of opinion among professional men is immensely in favour of vaccination. Doubtless there are cases, perhaps many of them, in which vaccination is attended with grave and alarming consequences; but it is the business of the wise man to set the evil against the good, and after making careful allowance and comparison, to declare on which side the balance of advantage is found. Let those who search for truth proceed in this spirit, and we doubt not that in the long run they will come to that conclusion which is just and right, as ee (c) ee Ce ee ee ee ee ee ee Ee see August 1, 1872.] The Devil and Vaccination. (From the Cosmopolian.) Circumstances that have lately come under my notice have led me to share the doubts now so largely entertained upon the subject of vaccination. It is said that vaccination is proved to be beneficial by the fact that smallpox is less fatalthan formerly. But gaol fevers, camp fevers, black-death, sweating. fevers, oriental plague, &c., are less fatal than formerly, without any corresponding causes. 'The fact, no doubt, is-that in former times medical practice was barbarous, and sanitary considerations undreamed of. At most, vaccination ought to be permissive, not compulsory. To imprison a man for refusing to have his younger child vaccinated because he believes that his elder child has been killed by the operation, 1s extremely cruel. The sufferers are poor men. Their influence cannot tell upon political parties hke that of brewers and railway directors, and therefore their cause has little chance of a hearmg; but I have yet to learn that a poor man is not every whit as fond of his children as a rich one. One can fancy the devil ehuckling over this bit of legislation. Such cold-blooded cruelty must be perfectly charming to any spirit of pure unmixed malignity. I send you anew version of Coleridge's celebrated poem. = H. Strickland Constable. Athenzeum Club, Pall Mall, London. From his brimstone bed at dawn of day, from his bed the Devil is risen, risen and dressed in his Sunday best, to inspect a model prison. Villanons faees-burglars, thieves, murderers, too, he saw : but the Devil was sad, for they put him in mind of just and righteous law. Fie saw a bare-hacked garotter flogged, cursing and groaning with pain ; but the Devil was sad, for he thought of the Book that says-'' Behold, the measure ye mete to thee will be measured again." Plenty of grovelling souls he saw plenty of vice and wrong- but petty and mean, so the Devil was bored, for he loves it hot and strong. There were two or three prisoners swearing hard, and he caught the word '" Damnation!" the Devil was bored, yet he sneered a sneer of lazy approbation.  . 193 At length he came to an honest face- '"' Hollo! my man," said he, ''how in the world did you get here- what crime can your crime be f'"' "T had a bairn," the man he said, a bonnier could not be; they poisoned his blood, and he died of sores, a loathsome sight to see. ** Another was born, but I swore an oath that murdered he should not be ; s0 here I am in a felon's cell, and in felons' company." 'TIo, ho!' cried the Devil, as he rubbed his paws, '"'this is nuts, this is nuts!"' said he; "a poor man crushed by the strong hand of legal tyranny. Oh! it's a treat, to see a good man ground down for doing right! doubly a treat when the grinding is done by law, in its pitiless might! " The Devil remained-he was far too pleased to return to his place below ; he stayed, and chuckled, and waved his tail gently to and fro. Vaccinating the Indians.-Ahbout fifty Indians, male and female, nimble limbed papooses, and decrepit gouty old warriors, belonging to Piah's band, were vaccinated at the governor's rooms yesterday. These half-clothed innocents have a a nameless horror-a horrid dread of the smallpox, and cheerfully submit to any measures that will insure their immunity from its loathsome ravages. They abhor this filthy complaint as much as they do the infectious manners and vices of the whites. It has never, according to aboriginal chroniclers, broken out in the tribe, and yet they regard it with shrinking tcrror, simply because it is a pestilence peculiar to the whites, who have brought sin and disease and death into the world. The vaccine matter was introduced yesterday by Dr. Steele, who, however, acting in a spirit of thoughtlessness peculiar to his race, suggested the use of some soap, simply designing it as an assistant in removing the false cuticle, and thereby incurred the positive displeasure of more than half the braves and nearly allthe women. 'They sometimes eat soap, if it is of good quality, with considerable relish, but they never use it as a purifier, or disinfectant; and nothing makes an Indian hotter than to give him the lye-in the form of soap. Some of the more diffident of the squaws, those with light copper skins and cold metallic eyes, who deem themselves the bon ton of the tribe, were just a little obstreperous, and exhibited a contemptuous scorn in return for the compulsory exposure of theirarms. It looked, though, like modesty merely for effect-Rochky Mountain News, Colorado, May 1, 1872.   [August 1, 1872. Mee aniion to, Mr, , Pease, MP. A large and influential Deputation of Anti-vaccinators from all parts of the kingdom, had an interview with Mr. J. W. Pease, M.P., at the House of Commons, on Welnesday, 38rd July, to make statements and give information on the subject of his Bill, the second reading of which was for the 10th July, limiting the penalties to a single fine for , non-vaccination, under the Vaccination Act. Mr. George Dornbusch (merchant) introduced the deputation; and amongst those of whom it consisted were- Dr. Thomas, of Newcastle; Dr. Weston, of Sheffield; Mr. W. E. Ford and Mr. Flock, of Derby ; Mr. W. Thurlow, of Sudbury; Mr. Wm. Feeblis, of Leicester ; Mr. James Stephens, of Whitechapel ; RMraG. Fysh, of Islineton - Mr H.* Norris, of Hoxton; Mr. Meyers, of Kentish Town; Mr. Patterson, of Fulham; Mr. Pearson, of Sheffield ; and Messrs. Owen, Robinson, Laking, Boyce, Morison, Putman, Percy, Swinton, Emery, Sacson, Stokes, Wallis, Gould, and J. QR. 'Taylor, of the Metropolis. Mr. Dornbusch, having thanked the hon. member for the interview, said their object was toimpart such information as would strengthen his hands in carrying through the Bill he had taken care of. No doubt Mr. Pease had received communications from various parties complaining of the grievous injustice-or, at least, the hardship-to which many people had been subjected in consequence of the operations of the vaccination laws. 'The Act oppressed greatly the poorer classes; while those well off went comparatively free. They wished to limit the present fines to one imposition, until the House of Commons and the people were sufficiently well educated to see the necessity of repealing altogether the vaccination laws. Mr. Baker (Hon. Secretary of the Society for Suppressing Compulsory Vaccination) observed that it was often said that Anti-vaccinators picked out some particular case, and paraded it as an answer to the general experience of the whole country. In answer to that, he said the evidence was so cumulative-it was all on their side-that he only quoted the last that happened to come to his knowledge. The poor cculd not resist what the magistrates chose to do: and this morning he had heard that a recalcitrant person, recently summoned at Stafford in respect of five children, was fined £6. 11s., with the alternative of five months' imprisonment and hard labour. The last case which reached him the previous morning, was that of a man who had been advised to go and visit the district, and see the mischief arising : and he went, and made a house- to-house visitation, when he found 66 cases of smallpox , and of those only seven were unvaccinated. There were only four deaths, and they were ail vaccinated. In Scotland, where compulsory vaccination tion had been in operation eight years, it was stated in the Ree report that 972 of the births were now vaccinated. 'The English smallpox epidemic occurred in 1771, and the Scotch in '71 and '72. During the epidemic in England, one per thousand of the whole population died from smallpox ; whilst in Scotland 14 per thousand died. 'The worst town in Kngland was Wolverhampton, which furnisbed nearly four deaths per thousand of the population. The worst town in Scotland was Dundce, and there the number was 54 per thousand. Berlin was nine per thousand in the last quarter, But the most important part of the statement was this-that the percentage of smallpox deaths among children of five years of age in Dundee, was 373 of the total of deaths. Mr. Stephens said he had given the subject his consideration for fifteen years, and believed that the people gencrally were opposed to vaccination. They subinitted to it simply because they did not like to disobey the law. Institutes and museums were being opened to teach the people to think, and then when they began to think (about vaccination), they were handed over to policemen, and handcuffed as felons. Mr. Pease had no doubt there was a very strong feeling on the subject of vaccination, even in his own neighbourhood, but he did not think it worth while then dwelling on it. Magistrates were very often placed in a difficult position. Many of them had to carry outa law to which they objected, but they must either carry it out or retire from the bench. A Gentleman suggested that it would be more creditable to retire from the bench than to administer unconscientiously oppressive and disgraceful laws. Mr. Emery (a member of the Marylebone Vestry and a member of the Sanitary Committee) said the first time his attention was drawn to the subject, was when his own child was vaccinated some two years ago. 'I'wo or three days after the vaccination the arm began to swell from the shoulder to the hand ; and two or three weeks afterwards it was dead. An inquest was held by Dr. Lankester, and it was proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that the child died from erysipclas caused by vaccination. He accidentally came across another child which had been vaccinated at the same surgery a week after, and that child died; and upon instituting inquiries, he found a number of other children had died. It was impossible to find out how many children died from vaccination, because the deaths were put down as owing to erysipelas or pyzemia. Mr. Dornbusch said people were shifting from one place to another in order to evade the law, and it had a very injurious effect upon their morals. 'Then again, they would not register; and therefore - the sooner the law was repealed the better. Mr. Henry Stokes had two children who had suffered severely from vaccination. One boy, vaccinated some years ago, had afterwards what was called the jaundice; and the doctor said it - was in consequence of vaccination, but that it would August 1, 1872.) Publre" Grealtlk | Gurnal. 125 clear the boy of the poisonous matter in his system, which it had not done to this day. The other child his wife had vaccinated in his absence one day, and for twelve months afterwards the child was one mass of ulcers; and yet he had been summoned, for not having his other children vaccinated, twelve times before the Clerkenwell Police-court, being fined four times and imprisoned once, and now he had another order to vaccinate a child. Mr. M'Donald had been fined during the last two months in sums which amounted to about £47. After some further discussion, Mr. Pease said he was obliged to the deputation, and would like to tell them that his own personal fear of vaccination did not equal theirs. He had been vaccinated four times himself, and had cig¢ht children, seven of whom had been vaccinated twice, and they had not suffered from it in the slightest degree. Why he took up the cause was because he found in his own district men who had as good reasoning faculties as he possessed, who would not have their children vaccinated conscientiously, and therefore, he was going to endeavour to restore the Bill to the shape in which it was when it was first sent up to the Lords. He admitted that a great cause for complaint was that those who instituted proceedings were very often boards of guardians and county justices. He did not rely so much upon the popular feeling as upon the principle of justice, and he thought with them if he had a strong feeling 'on the subject, he should not be content with the Bill he had broughtin, although it was a step in the iright direction. It was now, however, far advanced jin the session, and as it was the Bill of an independent member, and not of the Government, he wis inot sanguine of being able to pass it this year; but if he fuiled, he would be happy to try it again next tyear, although they might expect to mect with jopposition from a great many quarters. The Deputation then thanked the hon. member, jand withdrew. Walsall. - Anti-Vaccination Movement. - On (Thursday evening, an out-door meeting in favour jof the above movement was held upon the bridge. 'There was a pretty fair attendance; but the heavy rainfall which came on shortly after the proceedings commenced, necessitated an adjournment of the meeting, which it was resolved should be held that might week. The object of the movement, we believe, from what little transpired, is, if possible, to obtain a repeal of the compulsory portion of the Vaccination Act, and leave it optional to parents whether they should have their children vaccinated pr not.- Valsall Free Press, June 29, Vaccination, RProsceutions. Cambridge. Non- Vaccination.-Mr, James McDowell appeared to show cause why he had not obeyed the order of the Borough Magistrates, made on the 29th of May last, to have his child vaccinated.-Mr. McDowell made some legal objections to the order itself, which the magistrates held were not admissible; but ultimately the case was adjournel to enable the defendant to obtain leval ' assistance.--On the following day, Mr. McDowell again appeared to # show cause why he had not obeyed the order of that court, and had his child vaccinated; and his reasons appearing to be that he entertains conscientious objections to it, he was fined 20s. and costs, and was informed that he would be liable to similar proceedings being taken against him continually until the child was vaccinated.-Cambridye Independent Press, July 6. Croyden, The adjourned summons against Mr. Charles Blogg, zinc and galvanised iron worker, Church- street, Croydon, for neglecting to have his two children vaccinated, agiin came on for hearin. <= Dr. Carpenter pointed out that the fict of the certificate not being presented, might be due to his (Dr. Carpenter's) fault. Mr. Blogg was willing to have both children vaccinated, and had complicd with the law in the case of one. He was adverse to anything like persecution in these cases, and believed that a great deal more could be accomplshed by reasoning with persons conscientiously opposed to vaccinaticn, than by imposing penalties upon them.-Some conversation then took place between the Clerk and the Magistrates, and as the Bench could not agree as to the course to be pursued, the summons was dismissed; the Chairman remarking that Mr. Bailey had simply done hig duty.-It was understood that another summons would be issued in the case of the unvaccinated child. Keighley. At the Keighley Petty Sessions, Robcrt Alsop Milner, Keighley, was summoncd neglected to have his child, Isabel, vaccinated within the proper time. The child was born on the 8th of August, 1871.-When asked what reason defendant had to give for not complying with the law, Mrs. Milner, his wife, stated that her husband was consumptive. She and her husband thought the child might have a tendency to be the game. They firmly believed that vaccination developed such a tendency, and sometimes created it. and therefore they felt it would be wrong to vaccinate the child.- The Magistrate: Well, but are you to set yourselves against the law?-We must, if it is right to do gso.- for having | Magistrate; You will find it stronger than you,- 126   [August 1, 1872. ~Mrs. Milner : Bat i think I less given sufficient reason against the vaccination. Would not the bench of magistrates try to alter the law by petition to Parliament ?-Magistrates : It is not our duty.- Mrs. Milner: It is not your duty, but it would be right to do so. If there is sufficient reason given why the child should not be vaccinated, I think the child should be Ict alone.-The Magistrates : Well, you should bring medical evidence to prove that.- Mrs. Milner could not argue longer, but commenced to cry.-Defendant was fined 2s. 6d., with payment of all costs; and the order for the vaccination of the child was extended fourteen days, to allow medical proof that the child was unfit to be vaccinated. Simon Billows was charged with a similar offence.- The charge having been proved, as in the first case, Mr. Billows asked leave to state his reasons for not having the child vaccinated.-The Chairman said he was quite at liberty to do so.-Defendant said the reasons were -Because the State has no right to produce a disease in any child without the parents' permission; because vaccination does not prevent smallpox ; because vaccination is an outrage upon the known laws of physiology ; because vaccination has been indisputably proved to be a means of conveying foul and loathsome disease far more to be dreaded than smallpox; because the only preventive against smallpox and other diseases, is an enlightened and faithful compliance with the laws of life and death; because compulsory vaccination increases smallpox. To pretend (said he) that our health is dangerous to the community is an absurdity; to legislate against good health is atrocity. -The Chairman said, whatever it might be, the bench had nothing to do but administer the law.- Defendant said it was high time that the law was repealed.--He was fined Bs. 6d. and costs, with the same condition as in the last case.-Mr. Hodgson reminded Mr. Billows that one conviction did not free him from being proceeded against again if he did not comply with the terms of the 'Act.-Mr. Billows said that he was fully aware of that; but there was a measure either in the House or about to be introduced, in order to free a person after the first conviction,-Mr, Hodgson said that they had nothing to do with what was in the House : they had to take the law as it now stood._-Similar charges were preferred against Isaac Emmott and Joseph Birkbeck. The latter gave a number of reasons somewhat similar to those given by Mr. Billows why he had not complied with the law.- They were each. fined 2s. 6a and costs, the same allowance of fourteen days being given. Lincoln. Charles Hopewell, boiler maker, of Waterside North, was charged by Mr. J. Broughton, one of the vaccination inspectors for the Board of Guardians, with refusing to have his child, eight months old, vaccinated according to the Act of Parliament.-The defendant admitted the fact, and resolutely declared that, in defiance of all Acts of Parliament, fines, or imprisonments, he should strenuously resist to the utmost of his power-cven by physical force, if necessary-the carrying out of -an order which would corrupt the pure blood of his child, whom he loved more than his money, or anything else. He objected conscientiously to compulsory vaccination altogether, and neither man nor Acts of Parliament should compel him to adopt it.-Charles Lister, merchant's clerk, Burton- road, was also summoned by Mr. Broughton on a precisely similar charge, which he also admitted, and declared his determination to resist compulsory vaccination by every means possible.-Mr, Hopewell here said there were now hundreds of working men in Lincoln who expressed the same determination to resist this infamous law to the utmost of their power.-The Magistrates, after retiring for consultation, said they had simply to carry out the law as they found it; and they made an ordcr that each defendant should have his child vaccinated within fourteen days, and each pay 6s. 6d. for the costs incurred : in default of complying with the order, further proceedings for the recovery of the penalty prescribed in the Act of Parliament would be taken. -The defendants paid the costs incurred; but each of them declared their fixed determination to resist the vaccination of their children by every possible means.- Lincoln Gazette, May 18, 1872. Walsall. Peter Bull was charged by Joseph Kilbourn, vaccination officer for the borough of Walsall, with having neglected to have the child, Alice Bull, vaccinated. 'The defendant said that as he was served with his summons late on Saturday night, and had been unable: to see his solicitor, he would feel extremely obliged if their worships would postpone the case till Thursday. 'There was, he believed, a legal point upon which objection could be taken to the summons, and therefore he was very anxious to have the case adjourned.-_The Clerk said the act was one well known to all parties, and if there could have been any technical objection taken to the law, it would have been raised before then. - The Mayor said the bench were of opinion that the case should be proceeded with.-Mzr. Bull said he had had one child ruined by vaccination, and being the protector of his children's health, he was determined, before permitting another child to be vaccinated, to make some inquiry relative to the real value of vaccination. .He therefore went to his medical adviser, Mr. Moore, and asked him if he could say vaccination would prevent the child taking smallpox? Mr. Moore said he could not say it would, neither would he say that vaccination would prevent the child from dying of smallpox. Under these circumstances, he did not think he would be justified, as the guardian of his child's health, in permitting her to be vaccinated-The Mayor : August 1, 1&72.  . You cannot say vaccination a your mids health.-Mr. Bull: I can say that up to the time it was vaccinated it was a perfectly healthy child, and the doctor, when questioned, would not say vaccination had not been the cause of the injury done to my child; and therefore 1 feel justificd in concluding it was the result of vaccination. I may mention, my child is in a pitiable state, and annot walk twenty yards, and up to the time of vaccination he was a fine healthy child.-The Mayor said he considered the opponents cf vaccination tion were, in a great measure, responsible for the present state of affairs in the town, and he pied to find Mr. Bull occupying the position he did. After the statistics which had been published, he was surprised to find people objecting to vaccination. -Mr. Bull said the returns of the vaccination officer showed that the visitation of smallpox could not be owing to the neglect of vaccination, as out of 908 examined, only 54 were unvaccinated. If the town was kept cleaner, and the people were cleaner, matters would not be as they ;were. He thought the owners of small house property were much to blame, for if people had better dwellings there would be less disease. With regard to the statistic referred to by his worship, they were prepared by interested parties. Here Mr. Bull produced a piece of paper, and said if his worship had noticed statement which appeared in the Daily News, he would have seen that in Paris-but was interrupted -by the Mayor, who said: We have nothing to do with Paris. You are fined 20s. and costs.-Mr. Bull said he did not wish to put himself in opposition to the law, but felt it to be his duty to take the course he had taken in the matter.--George Cooksey was charged with having neglected to have his daughter, Selina Mary, vaccinated.-Mr. Cooksey said he was a law-loving subject, and was therefore very sorry to find himself placed in opposition to the law; but he was the custodian of his child's health, and as such felt himself bound to protect his child from vaccination. He was aware the magistrates were obliged to enforce vaccination, but he thought that in such a case as his, where the opposition arose from conscientious convictions, and not from a desire to set the law at defiance, the bench should do as they did in other cases, namely-inflict a mitigated penalty for the first offence, and not impose the fullest amount the law allowed.-The Mayor said if the case had been that of a poor person who had erred through ignorance, the bench would feel justified in imposing a mitigated penalty; but in cases of the leaders of the Anti-vaccination movement, he thought the heaviest penalty the law permitted should be imposed. Indeed, if the penalty were £5, he should impose the full amount. - In reply to the Mayor, Mr. Cooksey said: I am not a leader in the Anti-vaccination movement. You confer an honour upon me I am not entitled to; but my experiences as to the efficacy of vaccination are very different to Dr. Drewry's. I know a young man--The Mayor: You are fined 20s, and costs.- Walsall Free Press, June 15, 1872, Origin of Re. Va ecination. In the times errant ineatation prevailed, the same protective effect was claimed for thi process as has been since claimed f for vaccination. But the protection proved imperfect; and as the supporters of inoculation om itted to discover the useful theory.and practice of re-incculation, they were Supersec led and driven out of the field by their more daring and artful rivals, a Vaccination, in turn, like failed to protect; and its friends, more acute than those of the older nostrum, have adopted, literally, the yolicy ascribed ironically to the faculty by the great astute vaccinators. its predecessor, has comic writer, Moliere, and with the most astounding results. 'The germ of the new notion is to be found in Molie are's chef @ euvre- '¢ Le Malade Imaginaire," in fhe: scene in which Argan is admitted a member of the medical profession. In the third interlude, Argan first answers certain questions of the examining doctors, among which is one so often imitated by yaccinators that it has almost ceased to be considered burlesque :- Tho learned doctor asks me the cause and reason why opium a sleep? To which I reply, that there is in if a sleepy virtue whose nature is soporific. Which may be freely paraphra I am asked by the head of our learned sect- Why does vaccination protect ? To which I answer (and hope to convert you) - '' Because it has a protecting virtue." Sed == Argan is then questioned in turn by several see one of whom says :- With the permission of the Lord, President of this learned faculty, and of all the company assisting in this act, I wi il put one more question to ee man. Since yesterday, a sick man fell into my clutches. He has ereat fever, intermittent, much headache, great pain in the side, and much difficulty and pain in breathing. Please to tell me, learned bachelor, what to do ? Argan. -Give him a then purge him. Examining Doctor. - But if the obstinate and won't be cured, what then? Argan, -Cly ster him, bleed him, purge him ; re-clyster, re-bleed, re-purge him. Argan then swears to be of the orthodox creed on all occasions, whether right or wrong and is finally declared to be perfectly qualified to exercise the power of purging, bleeding, cutting, and kilhng (if not vaccinating), with impunity, the oughout the whole world. clyster, then bleed him, malady is 128 \ The Anti-Vaccinator. [August 1, 1872. Dream of an Anti-Vaccinator. Sitting in my garden in this delightful summer weather, amid the scents of pinks, and honeysuckles, and roses-(so unlike the sewer-stained air of many a working man's depressive home)-and, in the intervals of placid meditation, momentarily pitying, though not bewailing, the self-inflicted pangs of fakeer-inspired martyrdom, so common in the curious epidemic wave of fear and folly overclouding the land, offering a security which is no safeguard against nature's laws, I found myself reposing, with a volume of Moliere open in my hand at that wondrous scene of the inauguration of the candidate-aspirant to medical dignities, in the best of that great writer's comedies. I confess to being seized 'with an immoderate attack of cachinnation at the passage where the neophyte, after undertaking in succession to cure every disease by one and the same orthodox routine of purging, bleeding, &c. then in vogue, is asked how he would propose to act in case the obstinate complaint should perversely resist his method of treatment. On which he boldly exclaims, in the barbarous Latinity of the time-"Re-purgare, ve-scignare,' &c. This unexpected semi-prophetic foreboding of the medical logic of the present age set me musing; and half sleeping, half waking, there unfolded before me a scene of singular impressiveness. A young student, who had scarcely passed the age of re-vaccinationhood, was standing unabashed before a goodly company of members of the medical profession at the public examination. On high sat the president, with forehead wrinkled by many a year of irate denunciation. In the background was a long array of the infantile population of our well-vaccinatel manufacturing districts, whose vigour is admitted to be undergoing a marked and progressive deterioration: and above was the swect sunshine of the smiling heaven. Over the curtained platform hung drooping a_ roseolate garland, on which I read the inscription - By the Minister's favour, may we be allowed to work on the fears of the timorous crowd ; and with sweet compulsion to stifle the voice of him who refuses the lymph of our choice. Magistrates, aldermen, and guardians, crowded the hall. Conspicuous in position was the examining doctor (whose name I could not ascertain), who, with hoarse croak and pompous gesture, was slowly intoning the customary questions to the immovable countenance of the imperturbable youth, Examining Doctor. With my lord-president's permission, (that ''master of inductive science," with whom you seek to make alliance, ) submit we this to your decision ;- What course is right with an Anti-vacc., who has the presumption to cross our track ; who, with his cold contemptuous sneer, despises all we hold most dear,- our grease of horse, our teat of cow, and the '' healing disease'' of the Berkeley sow, with which great Jenner (conceal it, oh dread weird, ) invaccinated his son, poor Edward ? Shall we then give to this heretic bold (who interferes with our search for gold) the thumbscrew, the rack, ard the terrors of old, those love-inspired processes which, we are told, are charms to win back erring lambs to the fold? or shall we denounce him as guilty of treason, for daring to listen to God's best yift-Reason ? that Reason, obnoxious to medical theory, in combating whom we never' can weary ; that Reason, which blights us at every turn, which makes our cheek tingle, our countenance burn; that Reason, disowned by Our Lady the Cow, an enemy stern to our doctrine, I trow. Candidate. In such a case, oh! father and friend, to whose lightest nod I humbly bend, this 1s the course I recommend :- Gloze him with figures, misrepresent facts, forbid all inquiry into our acts ; then urge him and purge him, vilify and scourge him, blister him and bluster him, statistic him and fluster him, surround and circumyent him, per thousand and per cent. him, and vaccinate, and vaccinate, and vaccinate his child. Chorus of Dictators. Ye weeping vaccinifers, fevered and pale, he attempts to escape you. 'Tis of no avail. The law is against him, then hale him to prison, like Socrates, Daniel, and One who has risen. Or should he feel griev'd, then why not petition ? and meanwhile submit to the parish physician. Voices from on high. So Moses petitioned the Pharaohs of yore ; so Lot petitioned the dwellers in Zoar: so might, with obeisance unsuited to heroes, the Christians of Rome have petitioned their Neros: so might, with impolicy equally serious, the immigrant Jews have petitioned Tiberius, meanwhile observing the law as it stood, and, low bent at Jove's altar, adoring the God. So might, under Mary, with equal hope, the Latimer saints have petitioned the Pope, meanwhile observing the law as it stood, kneeling at Mass, and adoring the rood. (To be continued.) The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... 1s. 6d. Do, 12 saat cdulels iar ece Osa Gs All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 30, Cookridge-street, Leeds. = ee a £ Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . a: Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.8., F.8.8., F.S.A4., Springfield Mount, Lees. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, (Bx, Cookridge Street, Leeds. = All Communications to be sent to the Lditor, eS Cook meee Street, Leeds. No. 9. New Series. August | 18, 1872. riers Gae > Penny. Contents, ee Page Medical Men and Vaccination ............ 129 Ai ST CCU: STIS as eros: crerets roxas elersis! 6 SOO CIOS 130 Vaccination and Re-Vaccination .......... 131 ILS is Gin \WeKccrmrEnn Gs qogosooceCoode0N eS 132 Daw versus JUStice 0.0.2... csreeesosseseeys £33 Fallacies answered by Facts ............6- 134 Mditvortal ATtiCles:..... "<2 ee Nesarcie sieeve esse LBS ibotter ovis ease; IMS. cies: "cae eis0/0.0% 139 Re-Vaccinating Lunatics: Motion at Quarter SOSSIOTAS as Me eiyccn te oie sleiei som oleuarcleversv are! eie'e. sis 140 Meeting at Hoyland Common ............ 140 ESM laek Gull Supers acc feve-ctelersiesclereiere a'ccie ese sieisieve. e's 141 Mdolaiticys Ole dl CMMEL Tyrer cle cielo cie elsisieitie (c) soo leks Dream of an Anti-Vaccinator ......+...-- 143 SUG Gite ROA i atee alars teldtsr eis eon e\lele\otejoicis lace e. de 144 News, &c.:-More Vaccination Fallacies, dé la Furley, 131; Butterley Park, 141; Preston, 142; An Agreeable Remedy for smallPox, 142; Pure Lymph, 144. Medical Men and Vaccination. There are more medical men opposed to compulsory vaccination than is generally supposed. That they favour the practice itself is mainly owing to their peculiar training, and Be it our work to '' burst their bonds asunder." professional ligatures of various sorts. Relief in such case has always to come from outsiders. We have just seen a letter from a Liverpool medical man, addressed to J. P. Cobbett, Esq,, barrister last annual meeting of the Manchester Anti- who presided at the Vaccination League---in which the writer remarks, after referring to the shallow reasons -< of the fashionable London doctors for supporting the C. D. Acts- As to vaccination, in the present day everybody believes in it, except a very few fanatics; but, seeing that it is a purely domestic question, and that there is no grave disease which can be so easily guarded against as smallpox, I think, as I always did, that compulsory vaccination was a serious political blunder, and not at all calculated to carry out the object intended. About two years ago, there was no end to the boasting about smallpox being stamped out in Ireland by the strictness with which vaccination was carried out; yet now they are just getting over a far worse epidemic of smallpox than we had last year in England. We leave Mr. Cobbett to square accounts with his correspondent for calling him a ''fanatic." This medical man has a good heart-aye, and a good head; but the latter is burdened with some professional rubbish. He says-'' There is no grave disease which can be so easily guarded against as smallpox." This is true, if the writer meant that the guard from smallpox is cleanliness; but we suspect that he referred to the vaccine filth; and yet, how can he account for the prevalence of smallpox in Ireland if vaccination be a preventive ? We do not see how medical men who object to compulsory vaccination, can consistently refuse to aid those who are trying to make this a '' purely domestic question." "We say-' Leave it optional." If wholesome, the practice will live; if unwholesome, it will die, as it deserves. 130 The Antt-Vaccinator and {August 15, 1872. Inside a Prison. (From the Auburn Times and Western Post.) Some years ago I had a dear little boy blood- poisoned through vaccination: a sad sight he wa for months after. The child remained very weakly for several years from this date, and eventually had the jaundice. Not only this, but a loathsome and apparently incurable disease is now settled upon him. This malady causes both himself and others intense discomfort. I had another dear little fellow vaccinated some four years since, "from a very healthy child," as the doctor remarked. I protested strongly for some time, but was so persistently hunted down by the paid agents employed for the purpose, that my wife could bear it no longer. On her account I submitted, and the operation was performed. Ncw mark the result-in a few weeks' time the whole side, neck, and arm of the child were in a fearful state of inflammation, and for over a month he could not be dressed; he required our constant and most anxious attention. 'The child at length became one mass of sores from head to foot, and his hair all came off. 'This terrible state of affairs lasted over twelve months. His sufferings were agonising to witness. Our atiempts to relieve the pain and misery inflicted by the law of England on a hel; less infant were all but vain. So deeply did the sense of this great injustice and cruelty sink into my soul, that J solemnly vowed at the time that I would never consent to have another child of mine so barbarously mutilated, and so I swear again before God and man. No mortal, to my knowledge, shall ever again put that death-dealing lancet into a child of mine. My whole means-nay, even life itself-shall first be taken from me. Remember-neither of those children had the slightest trace of disease prior to the operation of vaccination being performed upon them. A third child was born, and it was of course marked out asa victim to the Juggernaut of vaccination. Having, however, the remembrance of the heartrending sufferings of my two elder children ineffaceably imprinted on my mind, and being firmly resolvcd to adhere to the solemn determination I had made, I steadfastly refused to become a party to the maiming of my own child, and resolutcly determined to do battle with the cruel edict that had gone forth for its destruction. With little or no delay, on came the enemy. Notice succeeded notice; but I paid no attention. Finding notices of no avail, a summons was served, with the result of a fine being inflicted: still I held out. The same process was repeated again and again, to my great loss and inconvenience. It has cost me in time alone sixteen days, not to speak of the vexatious annoyance, or even of the money actually paid in fines to the votaries of this horrible superstition. The officer called again a short time ago to inspect the child, but I ordered him off. 'The Monday following another summons arrived, and [ appeared to the call. <A counsel (T. Baker, Esq., of the Inner Temple) defended the case. The vaccination officer demanded an extra fee of .two guineas, but the magistrate did not allow it. I wasagain condemned to a fine of 26s., or in default of payment seven days' imprisonment. I chose the latter alternative, and was at once hustled into one of the foulest dens mortal was ever unlucky enough to enter. I found myself in company of other victims of the law, comprising burglars, thieves, shoplifters, &c., some being the most depraved creatures I have ever had the misfortune to come in contact with. I was detained here for nearly three hours. At the expiration of that time I was placed, together with many others, in the prison van, and conveyed to Coldbath Fields. On arriving at our destination, the van door was unceremoniously opened, and a harsh voice erowled forth '"Coom out." "Where shall I gor' ITinquired. "Where d'yer think?" was the sarcastic reply. The prison gate now opened to admit its victims. Another growl rolled forth from its depth. I plac: d myself where I supposed was right. This movement clicited the following respectful language-*" Look that way, I tell yer; yer 're not coom' heer to do as yer loike. Il teach yer." iiaving at length arrived at a large shed, we were imperiously commanded to "sit down." Interrogations were now put to us, and not a single answer was given in reply but elicited from the officials some cruel or sarcastic comment. Having been examined, all our personal property was most thoughtfully transferred into the keeping of these our tender guardians. Bedtime having arrived, I was politely (heaven save the mark!) shown to my snug apartment. I discovered a hammock thoughtfully provided for my own especial benefit; butalas! it was unslung. Not being a nautical man, J found, as you may imagine, no slight difficulty in rigging it up. At length,. however, after many failures, this desirable consummation was attained, and with not a few misgivings I trusted myself within it. The following morning I found provided for my use a suit of what were intended to represent clothes. In the abstract sense of the word clothes" they truly were, but that is as much as I can say for them. The colour was of a nondescript kind, being apparently distributed in patches of varying tint, the majority of which inclined to a dirty drab. A considerable number of musty old shoes were emptied ''promiscous"' out of sacks, in order that each convict might have an opportunity of selecting ''a fit" for himself. During this operation a running fire of abuse was most energetically kept up by the benevolent beings who had charge of us. After an interesting (but I am sorry to say almost fruitless) search, I succeeded in scrambling on two wretched old shoes, by the aid of which I managed to shuffle over the ground after a style. Having no braces, I was sedulously engaged for some time in turning over a heap of these articles of a more or less passe appearance, in my endeavours to find a 'couple of August 15, 1872.]  . RE about a length. Before dinner we were indulged with a half-hour's trot round the yard. At dinner time we were driven into a shed like so many cattle. The convicts were ranged on benches. Before each man stood, on a second bench, a tin basin of food and a wooden spoon. As soon as we were seated, round came an individual carrying a box containing salt, a small portion of which commodity he methodically dabbed down before each one of us. A second attendant followed close in his wake with a basket of brown bread. Grace having been faltered over both before and after 'dinner,' we proceeded to chapel. Service over, we did another trot round the yard, and retired to bed at 5.30 p.m. I slept this time in a different portion of the establishment. My bed consisted of a species of cast-iron trough, and pillow to match. Upon this was laid a stout mattress, one blanket, and a rug; also what was intended to be a sheet. I could not sleep. The strain on my mind was too great to allow me to do so. I was up and dressed at 56 a.m. awaiting commands. A little after 6 o'clock wide open flies the door. ''Coom out quick, and bring yer bed-clothes with yer; now then, coom on, or I'll teach yer 'ow to move." As soon as I had recovered from the astonishment caused by this frantic outburst. of official fury, I "moved" as fast as possible, but my locomotion not being, I suppose, quite up to the Coldbath Fields standard of celerity, this considerate gentleman immediately seized me by the coilar from behind, and ran me out into the yard. It was as much as I could do to keep my balance during this most extraordinary proceeding. My undignified arrival in the yard elicited an exulting chuckle. Before breakfast we were again indulgcd with a gentle canter round the yard, the officers meanwhile scanning us with all the knowingness of connoisseurs. Shortly after this, I thought I had had enoneh of ° y y) oO ca) prison experience for the present, and expressed my willingness to pay the fine on condition of being sct at liberty. My request was acceded to at once. Such is the manner in which' those who will not do violence to their conscience, and risk the destruction of their children's health for life, are treated by the existing laws of England. ISiokess % Since writing the above, Mr. Stokes has received another summons. 5 More Vaccination Fallacies, a la Furley !- Le Siecle, of July 15, adds another to the fallacies of the faculty, and states that-" A curious operation has just been performed at Florence. It consisted in applying the admirable discovery of the transfusion of blocd to two persons who had been enfeebled by lengthened illness from smallpox and fever respectively. A young surgeon and a hospital attendant, both pronounced to be perfectly healthy, agreed to allow the necessary blood to be drawn from their own veins; and it is announced that the operation has in both cases been completely succecsful,"' , vaccination were 44 per cent. Vaccination and Re-Vaccination. (From the Britsh Friend, for May, 1872.) Esteemed Friend, -Thy correspondent, who questions the correctness of my figures on page 44 of the second month's issue of the British Friend, can readily assure himself of their correctness by referring to the Registrar's report. Eighteen English towns, during 1871, furnished a mortality from smallpox of 18,174: this is, no doubt, a most remarkable and startling fact to those who imagine the vaccinations or re-vaccinations performed are of any value as a protective; for most of the 13,174, we may safely say, were vaccinated, although wo cannot get the numbers. The Lancet of July 15, 1871, estimated that even at that time, during the present epidemic, "more than 122,000 vaccinated persons had suffered from smallpox." It may be safcly stated, as a most irrefutable truth, that in those countries where vaccination has been most rigorously enforced by law, there, in recent times, have been the most fatal occurrences of smallpox in epidemic character. England began to enforce the practice in 1853, made the law more stringent in 1867, and in 1871, 20,000 people are carricd away by a smallpox epidemic. The history of continental countries which have enforced the practice, is simular, Saxony, Prussia, France, and Holland, bear witness to the fact that where you find vaccination and re-vaccination most. courted, in those countries will you find, not only most smallpox, but that of the most fatal type. May TI be permitted to say that Christian parents are, by religious and conspicuous members of Christian societies, condemned to prison and even the treadmill-as witness Peter Hitchen, C. W. Nye, and others-for no other crime than refusing (as said good John Woolman, in 1759, of the kindred practice of inoculation with smallpox) ''to take upon us, when in health, a distemper of which some die; and we believe that it requires great clearness of knowledge that it is our duty to do so."-Journal: London, 1824, page 122. -The surgeon to the Highgate smallpox Hospital said, before the Select Committee last year, that 30 years ago, when he first went to the hospital, the - admissions of patients suffering from smallpox after I It has, he stated, steadily risen till, in 1863 and 1864, it was 83 and 84 per cent.; and by his last report I find it was 91 per cent., leaving only 9 per cent. unvaccinated. In the face of all this, and much morc, members of our society, and of other Christian churches, are constantly found, up and down the land, sentencing, in their capacity as magistrates, their conscientious fellow-members and fellow-Christians. E32 Lecture on Vaccination. By the Rev. W. Hume-Rothery. (Continued from page 107.) Dr. Gregory wrote a paper in which he censured severely Dr. Jenner's system, and would not allow his children to be vaccinated; and we might adduce much testimony to the like effect. In Germany, France, Russia, and indeed in all civilised countries, the practice of inoculation had been discarded for many years by eminent medical men; they would see, therefore, that there was great division amongst medical men on the subject. They had already heard that Jenner said the fluid must come from the heels of the horse; but medical men of the present day said that Jenner was in error. Jenner said that one pustule was enough for lifelong protection; but now it was held that there ought to be at least four, and that six were better than four. Mr. Simon, who gave evidence before the Parliamentary Committee, as he (the lecturer) also did, declared that one was sufficient if the operation was properly performed, but that revaccination was advisable between the ages of 15 and 18, as there was a good deal of bad vaccination. Well, if the first operation had not been successful, what guarantee was there that the second would be any better? 'Then it was said that if vaccination was wrong, it ought to be proved so by figures. He need hardly point out that figures per se could not prove anything, as they were only of value as they related to a subject correct in itself. He was willing, however, to come down into the arena and fight the dostors with their own weapons. The argument he was now about to advance was advanced by him before the Select Committee of the House of Commons; and although his examination was as severe as a hostile committee could make it, the argument passed unchallenged by any member of that committee, although there were upon it three doctors, all keen men, who, if they could have detected a flaw in the argument, would have at once torn it to pieces. In the Lancet of the 21st Jan. 1871, the editor said-' From the early part of the century, cases of smallpox after vaccination have been increasing, and now amount to four-fifths of the cases." From the returns made to Parliament by the late Medical Department of the Privy Council and the Poor Law Board, it appeared that only two-thirds of the people of this country were vaccinated, and yet these two-thirds furnished four- fifths of the smallpox cases, while the remaining unvaccinated one-third only furnished one-fifth ;-a   [August 15, 1872. clear proof that the vaccinated were twice as liable to smallpox as the unvaccinated. Lord Robert Montagu, in 1867, stated that only about half the people were vaccinated ; and if that were true then, . according to the showing of the Lancet, the vaccinated were four times as liable to the disease as those who were unvaccinated. From the returns to the French Government, presented through the Minister of Commerce and Public Works, and prepared by the Imperial Academy of Medicine, he found the following astounding announcement :- "For every 88 cases of smallpox occurring in the ten departments least vaccinated, there occurred 427 cases in the ten departments most vaccinated ; and for every one death in the ten departments least vaccinated, there were 49 in those most vaccinated."' So that in France vaccination, instead of being a protection, had apparently been a fruitful propagator of the disease. It was frequently said that since the introduction of vaccination, smallpox had been less rife than before. Dr. Simon stated in his evidence that about 2,500 persons died yearly from smallpox before the introduction of vaccination, but in the last quarter of the preceding year there died of the disease in this country 6,380 persons. During last year 13,174 died in 17 of the principal towns in England, whilst the number of deaths during the whole year was 22,907. This did not tell very much in favour of vaccination. Sir Dominic Corrigan said that vaccination had stamped . out smallpox in Ireland, but since that time there had been frightful epidemics of smallpox in Dublin, Belfast, and Cork. Dr. Wood said that nearly all the Scotch people were vaccinated, and that the Compulsory Act of 1863 had stamped out the smallpox from Scotland; but they knew that in the large towns of that country there had been a severe epidemic. The Lancet stated that in China 80 per cent. of the 'people were protected, and yet there had recently been two fearful epidemics in that country ; and it was almost impossible to meet a Chinaman who was not pitted with the smallpox. He was at Leicester the other day, and found it stated that not a single person who had been re-vaccinated had gone through the hospital there. Now, that was simply an untruth, as he could prove from documentary evidence which he possessed, and from which he proceeded to quote. Recently a woman was taken to the Manchester Infirmary, and was compelled against her will to be re-vaccinated, but she took the smallpox afterwards ; and another person similarly treated also took the disease. Sir James Clark Jervoise stated before the House of Commons Committee, without receiving any contradiction, that there was not a single ship in her Majesty's service in which there had not been smuall-pox after re-vaccination. Dr. Ducharme engaged with great success in re-vaccinating a French regiment of Voltigeurs of the line, but afterwards a terrible smallpox epidemic broke out. To what, then, could they attribute this? The soldiers were all young and healthy previously, and the hygienic condition of the barracks was excellent. The only conclusion August 15, 1872.]  . = that could be come to was, that smallpox had been sown broadcast. 'There was no wonder that smallpox did succeed what was called vaccination. The Lyons Medical Society some years ago set on foot an inquiry whether cowpox was smallpox, and they experimented upon cows, horses, and donkeys. They found that if they took the matter from the cow and inoculated the horse or the ass, it was still cowpox, and that if the smallpox was transferred . to the horse or the ass, it was still smallpox. And yet, the medical men of this country were in the habit of taking matter from smallpox, giving it to the cow, and thence inserting it in the blood of hundreds and thousands of httle children; so that if the finding of the Lyons men was true, English doctors had frequently sown smallpox broadcast. The Pall Mall Gazette had stated that Prussia was the country where vaccination was most generally practised, the law making it obligatory on every person ; and yet, Sir Thomas Chambers stated last year that smallpox was three times more rife in Prussia than in London; and the Registrar-General conclusively proved that in Berlin, where re-vaccination was practised compulsorily, the mortality was seven times greater than in London, where re-vaccination was not compulsory by law. Revaccination killed Sir Culling Hardley. It killed the policeman Chanzy. It was simply a repetition of the curse, and could never be a blessing ; instead of being a prophylactic against the smallpox , it was the actual propagator of the disease. On the question of statutory enactment, the lecturer said that human government was given only to prevent a man trenching on the rights of his fellow; and Government could only do harm when it undertook a duty which a man could well do for himself. If vaccination was a_ blessing, instead of being an actual promoter of that which it sought to prevent, it were better to leave men to their own judgment ona matter affecting the relationship of a man to his child. He almost blushed to say, however, that when he came to Preston he came into the very stronghold of the enemy; and as the enemy used the weapons of falsehood and malignant persecution, and he used but those of truth and justice, he could be in no doubt on which side victory must ultimately appear. He was sorry that Proud Preston should be Persecuting Preston; and that the people should allow the authorities to persecute a respectable citizen in the most scandalous manner. Wherever he had found this persecution hot, asin Preston, he had always found the men in authority were not possessed of the true English spirit of manliness, but were merely successful money grubs, lifted to the magisterial bench, not because of judicial fitness, but because they had been successful traders. He thought the conduct of their magistrates and guardians deserving a public reprobation. In the town of Wigan, a respectable man, Peter Hitchen, was taken off to prison handcuffed, and put to labour on the treadmill, for refusing to pay a fine for non- vaccination. He (the lecturer) had represented the case to the Home Secretary, and had, after three applications, at length got an answer. In this letter from Mr. Bruce the facts were questioned, after inquiry from the Visiting Justices at Kirkdale ; but the man was prepared to substantiate his statements. -In drawing his address to a close, Mr. Hume- Rothery referred to several horrible cases of disease brought on children in Middleton (his own neighbourhood) by vaccination; and he quoted from a letter he had received to the like effect from Glasgow. He advanced the opinion that the illness of Her Majesty the Queen, last year, had arisen from blood- poisoning after re-vaccination ; and added, that no one could say the dangerous illness of the Prince of Wales did not arise from the same cause. The people of this country ought never to rest satisfied until these iniquitous Acts of Parliament were repealed. Law versus Justice. Two cases, reported in the Barnsley Chronicle of June 145, show but too plainly the one- sidedness and injustice of the law that should distribute equal justice to all. Mr. Wilham Turton was brought up before the court for the ninth or tenth time charged with not complying with the law respecting vaccination. The present charge referred to his haying failed to have two of his children vaccinated, and resulted in his being fined the sum of £3. 7s., including costs. Not paying it immediately, he was taken to pri8on, and kept there all night, till his friends brought the money in the morning ; and-all this for having prevented his children from undergoing a dangerous and worse than useless operation. On the other hand, a miner was charged with an aggravated assault on a little boy of four years of age, son of a woman with whom he was living. The little fellow was placed in a chair near the magistrates, and presented a pitiful spectacle. He had two black eyes, his left arm was injured, and his left side was one mass of bruises. Tho defendant had caused these injuries by beating him with a long brush, and shutting him up in a hamper in the cellar. The Bench believed that the defendant had committed this cruel assault on the child, and designated the case as a brutal and wicked one. They regretted that they were compelled to discharge the defendant on the ground of insufficiency 'of evidence. Thus he goes home to repeat the crime at his will, so long as he takes care that no witness shall see him during his recreations ; while Mr. Turton, for watching over his children with fatherly care, will have to work for weeks to pay off the debt to his friends, and always be liable to further ns: The contrast speaks for itself. 134 The Anti-Vaccinatot and [Augtist 13, 1879. Fallacies ana-Facts. The following has been printed ¢ as a Placard by the Society for the Suppression of Compulsory "Vaecinati ion, and is pubhshed by J. Burns, 15, Southampton Row, London, W.C., at 7d. per dozen, or 5s. per 100. To maintain that Vaccination is a preventive of smallPox, it is customary to adept the following Popular Fallacies Assumptions. 1-That all persons incur great danger of suffering from smallpox , unless artificially protected. 2-That when attacked, if not so protected, death will almost certainly follow. 8--That smallpox is mainly produced by contagion ; ¢.e., proximity to diseased persons. Assertions. e 1-That vaccination affords a sure protection against smallpox- (2) If done well enough. (4) If repeated often enough. 2-That there is no appreciable danger to be apprehended from the operation- (az) By the transmission of other diseases, (2) By injury to constitutional health and strength. Facts. here answered by A 1-Had this been so, the carth would long since have been depopulated. But several diseases, far more fatal than smallpox, have been entirely got rid of by civilisation and cleanliness, 2--The thousands marked by smallpox before practised, prove that this idea is unfounded. Hospital nurses have all had the disease before entering on their new duties. (See Myr. Marson's Evidence before Commons' Committee.) 3-smallpox epidemics cease and recur periodically, as shown by the Registrar-General. Doctors allege that they never carry contagion in their own clothes! The smallpox death-rate in the "model dwellings" (1870-2) was a tenth only of that of the "fever nests,' in the midst of which these dwellings are situate, though the population in them is four times more dense than in the "fever nests' themselves. On the "contagion" theory, it should have been forty times greater. vaccination was The smallpox B 1-The great majority of smallpox patients everywhere, during the worst epidemic of this century, had been vaccinated ; and the places in which vaccination has been longest compulsory-e.g., Berlin-have suffered far more than where it has been less practised. (a) This is "never"? when the person is subsequently attacked ! But (according to Dr. Grieves' Statistics) where vaccination tion leaves one mark only-which shows that the arm was so bad that the cicatrices become confluent-the mortality is greater than where less injury has left separate marks. (6) There can be no limit to the frequency under this rule ; hence Sir William Jenner would re-vaccinat@ every year, did an epidemic recur. (See his Evidence before Commons' Committee.) 2-The fact that 22 children in every 100 een die under one rear, surely casts a doubt here. (See Registrar-General's Return, No. 92.) (a) Eleven out of 13 adult persons vaccinated from one apparently healthy child in London (1871), had syphilis communicated tothem. (See Digest of Commons' Vaccination Committee Evidence. 6d. Shaws, Fetter-lane.) Hundreds of similar "accidents" are well authenticated. The deaths from that loathsome disease among infants are rapidly increasing, but such are never referred (as many of them should be) to vaccination. Thousands of parents know the mischief caused by this inoculation of diseases. (2) The general death-rate, especially among children (as well as leprosy abroad, and every inoculable disease at home, 'erysipelas, &c.) has increased with compulsory vaccination. August 15, 1872.]  . 135 Fallacies Inferences. 1-That the parent of every infant born ought to be compelled to cause it to be vaccinated within three months of birth- (2) Asa protection from smallpox to itself. (6) To prevent danger of its spreading smallpox to others by contagion. 2-That no parent be held competent to form an opinion on the question, or allowed to follow his conscientious convictions for the protection of his child, if such opinion be adverse to the practice. Nature of Evidence furnished by comparative death-rate from smallpox (a) Prior to and since vaccination. (b) Of like mortality in proportion to attacks. Witnesses. 1-Medical men only allowed to form an. opinion- (2) Though interested in concealing mischief. (2) Also in fees for the operation, and subsequent treatment of disease. (c) Also in preserving professional prestige; therefore witnesses in their own cause. 2-Parents. Opportunities for Observation. 1-Vaccinators-on eighth day after the operation. 2-Parents-during life. Final Subterfuge. Those vaccinated, when attacked by smallpox, have the disease ..ore mildly. j Facts. answered by C 1-There is a higher law, under which the parent is bound to think and judge for himself, and to follow the dictates of conscience. At least cleanliness should be compulsory before filth. (7) Facts prove that vaccination has not been any protection : and for a hypothetical benefit even to allow the proved risk of disease and death, from this unnatural operation, is a Si7. (b) If vaccination were a protection, it would be enough for persons to avail themselves of it, without prosecuting others who (in that case) could not infect them. The continuance of this groundless fear shows total want of faith in vaccination, and that the practice is a delusion. 2-Then Englishmen are altogether degraded, and deserve to be driven (as they are) like slaves. Courts of justice have, on this question, become offices for the registration of convictions ; and the bench (in the words of Thomas Carlyle) "a throne of iniquity for the administration of injustice." (a) When filth was diminished and inoculation abolished, smallpox declined; but since vaccination has been compulsory, smallpox has become more frequent and virulent. (2) The death-rate among smallpox cases in the last century did not exceed from 6 to 12 in every 100. (See Kvidence.) Now it is as high as 20, improved treatment notwithstanding. 1-Doctors must earn their bread; and to do so, must follow the fashion. (2) Naturally a doctor would not like to tell parents that he had Killed or injured their children. (2) Everyone does his best to gain a livelihood. (c) Nobody likes to confess himself to have been altogether wrong. A witness in his own cause is necessarily open to suspicion, and tempted to commit fraud. Perhaps no three medical men would (separately) agree in their certificate of the cause of death in any case. 2-What interest can parents have to injure (short of actual murder) their children? All their interest lies the other way. At) 1-Mr. Simon affirms that syphilis could not appear earlier than from three to six weeks, or longer, after inoculation. (See Evidence.) How, then, can the vaccinator, never seeing the child after the eighth day, know when such or like mischief does occur ? 2-No doctor watches over the life and health of any person, like a mother over her child. This fallacy is explainable by the truism that weakly infants, who cannot be subjected to violence, are often weak through life, and more likely to succumb to an epidemic of any kind, than those who have proved strong enough to bear another poison unscathed. The severity of attack also depends on the state of the blood: thus some will die from a scratch, while every day thousands cut themselves without harm. Nevertheless, to say nothing of lifelong injuries, the deaths by vaccination tion, added to the proportion of deaths by smallpox among the vaccinated, far-very far-exceed the smallpox death- rate among those not subjected to the process. 136   [August 15, 1872, the Antt-Waccetnator, i oe August 15th, 1872. We have to announce that Mr. Henry Pitman has ceased to have any official connection with this Journal. Jor the future, therefore, all articles and correspondence should be sent direct to the Mditor, 73, Cookridge- street, Leeds, The Editor trusts to the kindness and consider-ation of the friends of the cause, and hopes they will support him in his efforts to render the Anti-vaccinator as useful and instructive as it has beenin the past. The New Series of the Journal is exerting a very widespread influence, and although a great part of the circulation is gratuitous, still, itis felt that to inform the Press, and the leading men of the day, in ever so small a degree, not only on the subject of Vaccination, but on the more important relations of Sanitary Science in connection with Public Health, is an object worthy of the sacrifice, and an expenditure that will be sanctioned by those who contribute to the Guarantee Fund, and who, in so many ways, add to the interest and efficiency of the Journal. I Gam is essential that we should hear from every district what is gomg on with respect to the Anti-Vaccination controversy. All contributions to the local press, in the shape of letters, articles, or paragraphs, should be sent to the Editor without delay. cannot always be utilised, or Such communications transferred to the Journal; however, it is desirable to be well informed of the position and progress of the movement. Our especial thanks are due to the friends who have sent us so many able articles, and who, by their labors, sustain an agitation the importance of which, in the interests of humanity, will not suffer by comparison with any subject which has been advocated | within the memory of the present generation. Any question which affects the health of the community, is of much vaster interest than the contentions of political parties, or the differences of religious. sectaries ; for upon the health of the people depend the prosperity, the happiness, and the greatness _ of the nation. In future numbers, we ska!l occasionally give the mortality returns of Paris and Berlin, from official sources. Several of our correspondents have inquired for these returns, as it is necessary, in instituting a contrast between well- vaccinated Berlin, tolerably well-vaccinated London, and_ badly -vaccinated Paris, to know the exact death-rates of each city. Before those returns are published, we have no hesitation in stating that they will confirm the principle established by the statistics of England and Wales since the year 1838, and show that to be ''well vaccinated" means a high smallpox death-rate, and a correspondingly high death-rate from zymotic diseases and from ''all causes."' Some few months ago a friend communicated an incident which. occurred at Ilkley, near Leeds, and as it serves to illustrate'the point as to whether the opposition of the poor to vaccination, because of their belief that other diseases are communicated therewith, is to be attributed to ignorance or to a common sense and reasonable apprehension of the eyils attending the observance, we shall relate it. A labourer's wife, who objected to vaccination, was informed that she must have her child 'protected,' and as she could not afford to resist the law, she authorised the Union surgeon to do his work. Not wishing to perform the operation in the presence of the August 15, 1872.]  . 137 mother, the vaccinator went when he thought she would be absent, and effected his object. On the eighth day he called about half-past five in the evening, and was glad to see, as usual, another promising instance of ''successful vaccination," and on the child's arm there were two ''fine pustules." The temptation was too strong, so he opened his case, and took out a lot of points, and proceeded to charge them from the arm of the child which had been left in the care of a little sister. Having obtained a piece of chip from the top of the oven, he placed his precious treasures thereon, now armed with the mepultic poison, and sat down for a few minutes to allow the lymph time At this jiine her day's toil, and as her eyes fell upon the chip with the points arranged in ''nine-pin order," she inquired '' What is this'" The surgeon replicd-''Oh, I have only been taking ture the mother came in from to-dry. some matter from the child for use elsewhere. With a sweep of her arm the woman Innded the chip and its freight of ''pus" into the open grate. 'What is that for?" said the indignant vaccinater. ''Doctor," said she, ''don't you know there is IGng's-evil in my family?" Blanched and cowed baton the woman's gaze, he made feeble response-'' Aye, so there is; I had forgotten." Vexed within himself at so strange a déncuement, the Huloist pavked up his simple stock-in-trade, and departed from the cottage, for once leaving the Ising's-eyil among the ashes. which of the two showed the most intelligence Say, The short and simple " Annals of the Poor" would furnish many such illustrious Epo unens of honest and clear-sighted wisdom, if it were needful to extend our inquiries. To affirm that their prejudice, as it is termed, ariscs from ignorance, is a position which they only' can hold who know nothing about the matter at issue. IJ*rom the first enforcement of vaccination tion to this day, the poor have been the steady, honest, and bitter opponents of the practice ; they have reckoned up the mischief after the eight days, when the doctor sees the patient for the last time; and they have traced up, aye for years, the connection between the after diseased condition of the child, and the day when its blood was poisoned. rom one end of the land to the other, amongst the poor, there is but one cry, and it is this-'' Vaccination 1s a curse." Knowing the interes' which we take in this question, we have had many a pate anxious mother wait upon us for advice, at all hours of the day and night, and in all places-at home, in the office, and in the highways and byeways of the town. We have had children brought for us to see whose health has been ruined for life, and some of them in such a dreadful 'state that they were pitiable to behold. Over and over again we have said-' Let all our children have the smallpox, sooner than any one of them a disease so horrible as that." We meant it, too; and the law has yet to pass that -will vaccinate any one of our children, 'Stamp out the smallpox:" Yes, our fore- elders tried to stamp it out in 1722, when "inoculation" came upon the stage of life, introduced with all the sanctions which wealth and distinction could bestow upon it, andit was not till about the year, 1798 that the people fully oe to the bitter irony of the taunt, that instead of stamping out they were stamping it in maith a vengeance! <A second essay was made in or about that same year, when 'inoculation' was given up, and Kings, Lords, and Commons, '"'tria juncta cra uno,' combined to replace it by vaccination ; and another period of 70 years has passed away, and thousands and millions have perished, and are perishing year by year, the victims of an unnatural and abominable practice, and we are only just beginning to discover that stamping out means stamping in! Perhaps in our next inquiry into the operation of the Vaccination Acts, we may begin to reflect that it would be wiser to try to "stamp out the smallpcx" by removing the causes which produce the zymotic diseases, and which induce the susceptibility to the action of these poisons in the body, instead of secking for that which can never be found-a specific for disease when the conditions which produce té sitll exist. When the poison has entered the system, the remedy, the only safe remedy, is to assist nature to throw it off through the pores of the 138   [August 15, 1872. skin, and then to wash it away by the agency of water; and the only common-sense mode of preventing the action of the poison, 1s to see that we do not take it into the system, and there is a safe and easy method of accomplishing that desideratum---by removing the first cause, the unsanitary conditions, both in the surroundings of the home and in the person, and in that case the poison can neither be generated nor diffused. There is no doubt that sanitation is the only protection against smallpox, and all other diseases of that type. We religiously believe the doctrine it is our pleasure to propound. The improved sanitary condition of England has driven away the. plague, the black death, the sweating. sickness, and the leprosy; and if we had not by artificial means kept the smallpox amongst us, firstly by inoculation and then by vaccination, that disease would have been unknown in our day-it would have died out ages age. But here it is, and will be so long as the vaccinator plies his wretched art. Well may the poor be opposed to vaccination tion, for it is amongst them that the rite commits the greatest havoc; their children are naturally, by the very circumstances of their condition, the least able to withstand the operation of the poisoned lancet. When we calmly reflect upon this barbarous practice, itis difficult to conceive it possible that any sane man can advocate or practise a rite the very uncleanness and cruelty of which is its greatest condemnation. If a tithe of the mischief which is carried into the houses of the poor were transferred to the homes of the rich, vaccination vould be penal by statute, within a twelvemonth. In connection with any great political or social question, the middle and the upper classes have mainly to furnish the sinews of war, in the shape of money, wherewith to carry on the agitation; but in the Anti-Vaccination organisation these classes are sonspicuous by their absence; and the poor, to a very great extent, are left to do a work in which all classes of the community are interested, although it is true that the greatest benefit arising from the total repeal of all vaccination acts will affect the poor most materially and immediately. One of the principal reasons why the upper and middle classes stand aloof from the question under review, is-that they are ignorant of the bearings of the case; they see not the mischief, and they doubt its existence. The vaccination question, unlike many other subjects which engage popular attention, requires more careful investigation into its merits and demerits than many people can afford to bestow upon it; and when success shall crown our labours, the battle will be eventually won by a minority smaller in its numbers than that which has characterised any previous undertaking of the present century ; it will have to be gained by the intelligence and the perseverance of the few, rather than by the spontaneous demands of the many. We venture to affirm that there has been more intelligence displayed by the poor in their opposition to vaccination, than they have cared to throw into any other question of modern times. In a recent prosecution, Mr. Bruce, the Leeds stipendiary, admitted that the objections urged against the rite led him to avow that the opposition was, in the first place, ''an intelligent opposition," and, in the second place, ''a conscientious opposition." And no one can read the reports which appear in these columns from time to time, without subscribing to the above sentiments. Many of the letters, and some of the articles, to be found in our pages, are from men who have been ''self-helpers"' in the matter of education. The very earnestness of these prosecutions are with some more convineing than the elaborate compositions of the > student and the philosopher. Welf may the Lancet denounce the efforts of the Anti-Vaccinators. Let the Lancet know that the honesty of purpose, and the common-sense arguments of the Anti-Vaccinator, will in the end prove too much for the sophistries, the calumnies, and the quackeries of those whose personal interests are bound up with the imposture of vaccination. ' All we have to do is to be patient. 'Truth is the daughter of time, not of authority." The grandest reforms which have distinguished any era of our history were once the targets for fools and philosophers to shoot at: vaccination August 15, 1872.]'  . 139 therefore must not expect to be any exception to a rule so general in its application. In the vision of the Apocalypse, the spirits of the just beneath the aliar, waiting for the revelation of the last judement, are represented in the attitude of continual prayer, a prayer which finds utterance in tones of intensest suspense-'"'Lord, how long?" If there is any similitude to this figure on earth, it is to be found in the homes of the poor, with reference to the abominable practice under review. Where is there a mother who takes a child to be vaccinated without a shudder? She knows very well that while she gives up her infant in health and strength, it -may be given back to her cursed with the leprosy of vaccination, or of some communicated disease, which, ere a twelvemonth shall pass, will rob it of its life, and leave the fond mother childless, with the undying conviction upon her conscience that, by yielding to the law, she contributed to the death of her own offspring. Perchance the child may live a few years; it may see its tenth summer, and die; or if it have extraordinary vigour of constitution, it may live out its allotted period of threescore years: but the terrible truth stares us in the face that one-half the children born to us never pass the narrow limits of ten years. Where is the father who submits his child to the operation without feeling that he sacrifices his dignity as a man, and his confidence in the wisdom, the goodness, and the perfection of his Maker? These thoughts 'are not exclusively to be found amongst the thinking portion of the better-informed classes, but are the prevailing expressions and opinions among the reflecting men and women in the ranks of the working classes. The practice of vaccination , in every aspect, is alien to all our instincts, and before we can reconcile ourselves to the disgusting rite, we have first to do violence to the best feelings of our nature. This state of things cannot continue for ever. How long will medical science, find and helpless as Polyphemus, sanction the freaks of this child-slayer? How long shall this Juggernaut traverse the streets and lanes of our cities, towns, and villages, whilst the people are compelled to cast their children beneath its ponderous wheels? Vaccination is a rite which, under the fostering care of the State, has grown up into an institution-an institution which is one of the last links which connects us with a bygone age, an age when superstition, and not science, characterised the masses of the people, and when the art of medicine was amore humane and useful thing in the hands of old women, than it was under the advice and manipulation of the skilled practitioner. Letter to Mr. Pease, M.P. 128, Portland-strect, Manchester, July 9, 1872. My. Pease.-Sir,-I write in relation to your Bill for limiting the penalties for non-vaccination to a single fine. Asan Englishman, I love British law and order, and it 1s with grief that I feel impelled to act contrary to the law of the realm; but concience dictates that I must not suffer my children to be vaccinated. British law says I must, or pay a fine not exceeding twenty shillings; this amount I have paid for my first child, and would do it cheerfully for my second, but the law, as it is now understood, arms a terrible power to crush me to dust and lifelong poverty, amercing me times without number, would break up my happy home, ruin my business, take away my social comtorts, send me to prison, and make me into a criminal: or if I submit, conscience will be violated, peace of mind will be gone, and possibly ruin the health of my dear ones, who have brought light, sunshine, and joy into my cottage home. One of these will be my lot if the present law be enforced, or I must leave the country, and curse the land of my nativity, that casts me out and bids me find a home of freedom under another part of God's heaven, which, by an act to foster and protect a medical sect, it denies me, a freeborn Englishman, the parental prerogative of caring for and protecting my own children in the land I love the bést. Already five times: have I removed my place of abode, and assumed another name, in order to cover my little ones from the vaccine law. Now, sir, is this right? I have been a member of a Christian church for 17 years, and a Sunday school teacher for about 18 years, yet by this law I am Hable to be treated as a common felon, anc handcuffed to a house-breaker, a thief, or a murderer ; and my crime is, that I love my children too well to allow them to be infected by a law which observation, reason, Common sense, conscience, and physiology, inform me is in direct antagonism with the welfare of the race. Accept, dear sir, my warmest thanks for your Bill, which I hope will become law in due course: ' and believe me to be, your obedient servant, Richard Vickers, 140   [August 15, 1872. - Re-Vaccinating Lunatics. Motion at Quarter Sessions, The Hampshire Telegraph, of July 3, reports that the Midsummer Sessions for the county of Southampton commenced at the Castle of Winchester on Monday. The following magistrates were present : -Lord Eversley, inthe chair; the Marquis of Winchester; the Marquis of Cholmondeley; the Harl of Carnarvon; Lord "deury Scott, M.P. Sur W: . Heathcote; the Right Hon. W. Cowper-Temple, M.P.; "G. Selater-Booth, Hisg., M.P.; W. W. B. Beach, Esq., M.P.; the Hons. J. J. Carnegie, H. D. Curzon, J.T. Dutton, and 8. J. G. Calthorpe; Sir J. C. Jervoise, Sir H. P. Gordon, Sir N. Rycroft, &e.- Sir J. C. Jervoise moved the following resolution : That, while recognising the interest in the welfare of the patients, and the zeal displayed by the Saperintendent of the Hants County Lunatic Asylum, this court cannot but consider that the re-vaccination of a large number of patients of each sex was a measure calculated to endanger their health; while the order to stop the visits to patients of those friends residing in infected districts, was harsh and unnecessary. In proposing the resolution, he said it was clear he could entertain no malice towards any of the parties involved in (what some might consider) this charge ; nor did he move it in a spizit of hostility, because he believed that the committee and the superintendent had acted according to law, their duty, and public opinion. But public opinion did not regulate affairs of science. The duty of a magistrate was something more than that of bare obedience and administration of the law: it required a conscience, and a certain amount of intelligence and reason. if they were simply to administer the law as it came down, without any higher consideration, the patients in the lunatic asylum would be as capable of administering it as the visitors themselves. Then he came to the law itself. There could be no doubt that the sanitary laws of the country were not exempt from those failings which were common to all laws. thought he might say, without fear of refutation or contradiction, that there never had been so much vaccination, and never so much smallpox, in Great Brituin and Ireland, and on the Continent, as there had been during the last three years, and that there had never been so many fatal cases. Now he came to the order he found in this report of the Hants Lunatic Asylum. It was well known that anything like unnecessary restraint, anything that would tend to lower the system, or that would cause anything like a revulsion of feeling or circulation, was not desirable among the patients of an asylum. If, from some extraordinary circumstance, there were a guarantee that smallpox would enter the asylum if He. | vaccination were not adopted, or that it would be kept out.if it were, great risks might be incurred ; but were he to go into statistics, he thought he could show how very little it had tended to moderate smallpox. These results were to be expected from a system of unnecessary restraint : but there was a physical evil.-The hon, baronet read extracts from a digest of the Evidence before the Vaccination Committee of the House of Commons, to show the physical consequences of vaccination-erysipelas, &c. He next read from the report of the Superintendent of the Asylum, in which it was stated that as ' smallpox had been epidemic in the neighbourhood, he had thought it necessary to re-vaccinate the patients. Happily, there had not been a case of smallpox in the asylum, nor an epidemic,- though there were several cases of erysipelas, and there was a strong tendency of the sores on the patients to assume an erysipelatous character."' He read an extract from Miss Nightingale, in which that lady had asserted that a wise attention to the patient was the best safeguard against infection. He had no hesitation, on the authority of one of the most beneficent spirits of which any country could boast, in denouncing this theory of infection as a superstition. Mr. Sclater-Booth, M.P., seconded the motion as a matter of form, and then defended the authorities of the asylum for acting as they had done. His hon. friend had assumed that the sores arising from the vaccination had been of an erysipelatous character. Out of the 250 cases of vaccination, there was not one in which there had been any injury; and the statement in the report really had reference to sores produced by other disorders. Sir J. C. Jervoise said he had no desire to impute harshness or hardness of heart. to any one; but he merely denounced this theory of infection as superstition. The motion was then withdrawn. Meeting at Hoyland Common. On Thursday evening, June 27, a public meeting was held in the large room of the Hare and Hounds Inn, Hoyland Common, near Barnsley, for the purpose of exposing the delusion called vaccination, and expressing sympathy with Mr. Wm. Turton, a persecuted Anti-Vaccinator. Mr. Samuel Hickling presided. There was a numerous attendance. Some startling statements were made respecting the lifelong and often fatal injuries caused by vaccination, which was shown to be impotent in preventing smallpox. Amongst the speakers were Messrs. Joseph Beck, Charles Pitchford, Wm. Fox, Joseph Pearson, Benjamin Platts, Joseph Beaumont, John Delaney, &c. The following resolution was adopted unanimously :- _ That this meeting condemns in strongest terms the bitter persecution directed by the Barnsley Board of August 15, 1872.] PublWe-Trealth "Journal: TAI Guardians against William Turton, of Hoyland Common, and expresses its indignation at the conduct of the Board in their persistent un-English and un-Christian persecution of an honest working man, and of the Justices in cruelly enforcing an extreme penalty allowed by the Vaccination Act, 1867. Copies of the above resolution were directed to be sent to the Guardians, the committing Justices, and the Home Secretary. The following Petition was also adopted, and sent to Mr. J. W. Pease, M.P., for presentation :- To the Commons of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the Inhabitants of Hoyland Common, in public meeting assembled ; Sheweth,-That your petitioners view with regret and recorded under the Vaccination Act, 1867, and the Vaccination Amendment Act, 1871, against virtuous God-fearing parents, for refusing {o subject their children to an unclean and cruel surgical operation : That the victims to the above-mentioned Acts are, for the most part, members of religious bodies, amongst whom are members of Boards of Guardians, medical men, Sunday school Teachers, and even Ministers of religion: That many working men have been harassed and persecuted, and their means of supporting their families seriously impaired, by the infliction of repeated penalties and excessive costs for the same offence, which your petitioners submit is contrary to the constitution of England : That the dangerous conviction is gaining ground and becoming generally prevalent amongst the working classes, that our courts of law are being used as engines of tyranny for enforcing a regulation of the Doctors' Trades Union, whilst the regulations of Working Men's Trades Unions are rigorously suppressed, or rendered dangerous of application, by penal enactments : That on the 12th instant, at the Barnsley Town Hall, William Turton, an inhabitant of this place, and well known to your petitioners as a worthy, upright, industrious working man, appeared before the justices for the tenth time, in answer to two summonses, charging him with the crime of refusing or neglecting to submit his children to the cruel blood-poisoning operation called vaccination : That for this so-called crime the bench inflicted a fine of 20s., and costs 13s. 6d., or one month's imprison-~ ment in each case, making a total of £3. 7s., or two months' imprisonment : That on the said William Turton stating he could not pay so large a sum, he was at once removed by the police to a felon's cell: That on the same day, and before the same justices, John Strafford was tried for cruelty to a child, about four years old, to wit-an aggravated assault on the said child with a long brush, whereby serious injury was inflidted: That in the case of Strafford, the bench believed that a brutal assault had been committed on the child, and they believed the defendant had done it. The defendant then left the court. Thus, Turton is punished with a fine of £3. 7s., or two months' imprisonment, for protecting his children from cruelty; whilst Strafford, for perpetrating gross cruelty upon a child, escapes without punishment ; That such gross miscarriage of justice is ca'e ilated to bring the administration of the law into contempt. Your Petitioners therefore pray that your honourable House will immediately and unconditionally repeal the Acts enforcing vaccination. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. Signed for and on behalf of the meeting, Samuel Hickling, Chairman. The Chairman of the meeting, in transmitting . a the resolutions to the Home Secretary, &c. wrote- The meeting was called in consequence of the persistent and apparently malicious persecution of Wm. Turton by the Guardians. Turton appeared before the Barnsley Bench of Magistrates for about the tenth time for one and the same offence; which is such an un-English practice, that all respect for Jaw-and | especially in the case of working men-is dying out, as alarm the large number of convictions which have been | they feel that there is no justice in our so-called English courts of justice, except for those who can afford to pay for the luxury. I enclose report of Turton's trial, and also of John Strafford's for cruelfy to a child, and beg you to observe how much more heinous an offence in the eye of English law it has become to protect a child from cruelty, than to inflict cruelty upon it. Health Rules. Be regular in all your habits. Control your appetite, or it will control you. Drink little, eat slowly, and chew much at meals. Don't hurry at, to, or from the table. "Tat to live," and mot (c) liye to eat.' Avoid late and hearty suppers. Don't eat between meals. Be temperate in all things. Be fee, and always look on the brightest side. Keep the feet warm and dry. Keep the skin clean, comfortably warm, and dry. Bathe often. Avoid great mental or physical excitement. Exercise the whole body*every day. Avoid tight clothing and cramped bodily position. Avoid breathing impure air. Secure plenty of sound sleep. '' Karly to bed and early to rise." Seek the sunshine, shun the shade. Abjure tobacco and fermented or distilled liquors. Keep the passions under strict control. Follow fashion no farther than health leads. Butterley Park.-Death in consequence of vaccination tion. -Thomis William Davies, son of W, and S. A. Davies, of Butterley Park, was vaccinated on the 5th, and died on the 17th ult., aged three months. The following is a copy of the medical certificate :- "T hereby certify that I attended Thomas William Davis, aged three months; that I last saw him on July 16th, 72; that he died on July 17th, '72, at Butterley Park, Ripley; and that the cause of his death was vaccination, 2nd pneumonia. Signed, Marshall Hooper, L.R.C.P.S8., Ripley, July 17th, '72. -Derby Gazette, Aug. 2. 142   [August 15, 1872. Idolatry of Jenner. {From a Lecture by Mrs. Butler, of Liverpoo!, on 'The Morality of the State and the Morality of the Bible.'' ] There are none here, I imagine, who will not give their assent to the proposition that if the morality of the State is identical with the morality taught by Christ, then of necessity must the State prosper both socially and morally, for the Bible says " Rightecousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people" ; and none here can doubt that by enacting laws which outrage God's law, the rulers of a country must bring upon themselves, and upon the people for whom they legislate, the displeasure of the Almighty, expressed in those awful words of the prophet Isaiah-" Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write gricvousness which they have prescribed, to turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people." The Psalmist puts the question- 'Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth iniquity Ly a law?" If we wish for purity of manners, we must begin by obtaining purity in our laws. The laws are the great educators of the people, and when they are partial and unjust, class hatred and bitter animosities spread like a poison through the body politic ; when the laws are impure, vice and wholesale demoralisation will necessarily be the consequences; when vital principles of justice and of right are violated by our rulers, the time is not far distant when these violated principles will assert themselves in a voice of thunder, in social convulsion and national catastrophe. Mrs. Butler here gave a very deserved castigation to the expediency policy, which condones evil, and undertakes to regulate the most deadly best all social vices. £0 malo: a trade of corruption is the decpest of all offences against the social body. Mrs. Butler denied that the medical profession, as a class, are in favour of the Contagious Diseases Acts :- "'T suppose that what has given rise to this crroncous impression, is the fact that the great and fashionable doctors of high rank, in London, headed by the court physicians, have taken a leading part in advocating the licensing of vice. But I am not surprised "at this, when I recollect that the whole: movement was inaugurated by the aristocracy ; for I fear that fashionable life, wealth, and honours, ¢ and the atmosphere of courts, are as injurious to the moral judgment and the spiritual life of doctors, as of other men. When the court physician strikes a key-note, a number of inferior physicians in London tune their voices in harmony with his own; he leads, and they follow; but in our great provincial cities there is, I think, more manly independence of character, and so it happens that there are vast numbers 'of doctors here, and in other towns, who refuse to bow the knee to King Jenner, or any other little deity of the hour." The lecturer, after touching on several other subjects, concluded with tho words ' 'But Jehovah ee He says to the raging waves of the sea, 'Thus far shalt thou go, and no further? He is teaching us some deep and solemn lesson, if we could but leara it;_a lesson which, in the ages of eternity, we shall rejoice -to have learned, at whatevor cost of suffering. God is speaking to this country, and especially to His church, His people in this country. Let it be our single desire to learn His meaning, and to carry out His purpose. More deeply than ever is the conviction rooted in my mind, that He has a cae at present far beyond the defer at of this wicked law ; the victory, which may not be near, but which is certain, will not be merely the repulse of an attack by the enemy of all good, but may be a turning point in the Listory of our country. Let it encourage us to know that our battle belongs to a great and extensive field of spiritual war; tnat we are standing at the key of the position, and that we are called to promote a revival of faith on the earth, Nee higher views of righteousness and purity: no matter whether we, the pioneers, lay our bones in the desert, ovhers will pass over them to victory. Let us echo the ery of the Crusaders (and ? fours is a holier crusade) -' God wills it! God wills it!' " Preston. -- to the Vaccination Aet.-On Wednesday evening, a numerously-attendcd public meeting was held a the Corn Exchange, Preston, to protest against "the unnatural operation of raccination, by which thousands of infants are annually sacrificed,. and the tables of mortality alarmingly increased," as was set forth in the advertisement calling the meeting. Mr. Brindle occupied the chair, and, aftcr a few oppaing remarks, introduced the Rey. Wm. Hume-Rothery, who pouted out the alleged evils which, within his experience mainly, had resulted from vaccination, He then eoletaall in detail to the evidence given against the practice before a committee of the House of Con nmons, and supported it by medical testimony both in this country and in France. .After the address Eaopesoluiions were passed, the first affirming that "the blood-poixoning acts, falsely called the Vaccination Acts, were a erent } pohtical ex rime ;'' and the second was to the effect that Mr. Edward Foster, of in iargate (who has been several times fined for non-compliance with the Act), was deserving of the highest respect and admiration, for preserving his child from the evil effects of parliamentary blood-poisoning, <A petition against the Vaccinaticn Acts, for presentation to the House of Commons, was agreed to.- Manchester Examiner, June 17. An Agreeable Remety for smallpox.-The New Orleans Weekly Tomes for July 6, 1872, states that -' Fried mice were once considered a specific for smallpox ; and it was believed, in respect to whooping- cough, that if you ask a person riding on a piebald horse at to do for it, his recommendation would be successful if attended to.'' Vaccination is the "fried"? mouse of the faculty, August 15, 1872.) Dream of an Anti-Vaccinator. (Continued from page 128.) Examining Doctor, addressing the Candidate. But should the recusan! be far too wise to see facts and figures through partizan eyes, what are the rigours to make him feel ; he's a tremulous slave trodden under our heel ? Candidate. Re-urge him and re-purge him ; re-vilify, re-scourge him ; re-blister and re-bluster him ; re-figure and re-fluster him ; and equinate, and vaccinate, and porcinate his child. Chorus of Vaccinators. With well-ordered figures we satisfy queens : seven marks thrice renewed (O, ye bishops and deans!) are *'almost"' protective to youths in their teens. Here surely the end justifieth the means ! Let our patients then feel vaccination a treasure, the greater their suffering, the greater our pleasure ; for this proposition admits no demurrer,- vaccination is useless unless it be thorough." Veiled Britannia. Erst, while defending their lov'd mark, their wives, their little ones, their cattle, the Anglo-Saxon fathers stark swung round their helm the axe of battle, or poised the dreadful mace : unvaccinated arms were those that hurl'd destruction on their foes, to keep their homes in peace. Now the wan ghost that dimly gleams by old Northumbria's mystic streams, fears not th' invader clad in steel ; no clatter of his horse's heel restores the wonted glow: his pale descendants, blanch'd with fear, to horse's heel in faith draw near, "Tt pro-tects, like the cow." The Scribes. Aversion to law is to us quite a mystery : why do not these people read sacred history, in the pages with which the record is stain'd, when Jezebel govern'd, and Ahab reign'd: when (as Dollinger proves) each firstborn child was in gratitude offered to Moloch mild, and the mother was told by the priesthood demure- "'The rest of your babes will be now quite secure." And the blast of the trumpet and roll of the drum outmastered the furnace's terrible hum ; while the stupid, fanatical, timorous crowd expressed their hopes and their fears aloud-. Was the coal the right sort? was the burning quite "' proper" ? we are "safer" with fuel fresh brought in from Joppa, Echoes from the Valley of Benhinnono. Call on Moloch, my lov'd one, Moloch will save ! call on Moloch, call on Moloch, my babe!"  . 143 Philosophie Spectators. Thus the Israelite children were saved from God's ire by passing the eldest through Moloch's " pure" fire. More debasing the dogma that fetters us now, and ofters salvation through Jenner's cow. Literary Spectator. This ox-headed demon, of Syrian fame, may with British Vaccina relationship claim: thus we trace out in history's versatile page the transmission of folly from age to age. In unisn. Our hearts will with gratitude surely be glowing, would our rulers enact-our rulers so knowing- which beast of the two shall our pestilence lull, Vaccina the cow, or Moloch the bull! Chorus of Professors. Ye men of this wondrously-favoured nation, to praise and to flatter whom is our vocation, learn how Jenner discovered that specks from cows' teats have power to remove the smallpox from its seats in the filth-begrim'd courts which disfigure our streets. So potent our lymph, that, with it, at death's portal, we urgently prove even death is less mortal: for Iaith shall confess, unless Reason have spoil'd her, where Lymph seemingly fails, the attack becomes milder. We can otherwise prove, too, all rhetoric scorning, our numerous ' disasters" are sent for our warning ; and hence, as we hear, common rumour now saith- the greater the failure, the greater our faith ! Chorus of Poor-Law Guardians. Oft wand'ring mute on Lowestoft's strand, in cheap excursion to the wave, we Guardians of the British land, at Scarbro', Rhyl, or Bournemouth grave, *press'd with the sight that makes us wild, of a mother with an uastainced child, can ne'er forget our solemn duty to make such mothers stand in awe: proceed we, then, in manner haughty, with speed to "' carry out the law."' Echoes from on high. In this sublunar sphere of woe, the headsman has his "'duty"' too; and when St. Sepulchre's dread toll bids the departure of a soul whose fitful thread of life is ending, while Fame her garland is suspending, a Russell proud for freedom dying, a Vane for England's honour sighing, his last sigh fills the mind with awe of him who "carries cut the law." Chorus of Aldermen. And still we, in this broad dominion, shall boast our frank unslaved opinion, which, as is 1ight and reverential, is free in all things not essential. The President. Try re-vaccination: it never shall hurt you ; for re-vaccination has this one great virtue- should it injure or kill you, whene'er you receive it, we all stand prepar'd to refuse to believe it: for, whatever the issue (so great is our art), be it dropsy, decline, or disease of the heart, 144 The Anti-Vaccinator. (August 15, 1872. be it smallpox itself, as oft will occur, to the '' so-called" fact we will strongly demur, and will surely the death from its cause disconnect, while still re-asserting our power to protect: to our own proper credit the issue shall turn, in despite of the foes who our practices spurn, Grand Chorus. Now, with emotion let us bow, and reverence great Jenner's cow 3 and while soft blows the evening zephyr, let us adore the '' healing" heifer, proclaiming loud as tongue can tell, "These be thy Gods, O Israel !"' Editorial Partizanship. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaecinator. Gentlemen,-A friend at Bristol, with whom I have had some considerable correspondence on the subject of vaccination, sent me the Chepstow Weekly Advertiser for June 8, containing a letter a column and a quarter long, signed A. G. Lawrence, M.D., respecting "the dire and odious disease of small: pox," and "the important utility of vaccination." After referring to a young man in Chepstow who caught smallpox from fear, was vaccinated before it was developed, and died, the writer refers to Sir W. Jenner as ''the greatest authority of the day on fevers," and then gives a rambling account of two or three families having the smallpox, and of one family being insusceptible of vaccination. Some statistics followed, including those of the 1, 2, 3, 4 mark theory. I sent a reply, and quoted Sir W. Jenner's confession of "no authority," showed the fallacy of the four marks idea, and give the experience of London, Berlin, Bridgewater, Leeds, Ireland, &c. I also sent the editor stamps for a copy of the paper, which he has not sent me, neither has he up to present date even had the politeness to return my stamps. The friend above referred to sent me the <Advertiser for June 15, which contained the following notice :- We have received a lengthy communication from Derby, denying the efficacy of vaccination; but as we do not intend to change the Advertiser imto a medical journal, we must decline to enter into any controversy of the kind. In the first place, my reply was about half a column long; and in the second place, why did not the Editor of the Chepstow Weekly Advertiser tell Dr. Lawrence he '"'did not intend to change the Advertiser into a medical journal ?"' Grange-street, Derby, July 26, 1872 A. Feltrup. } use of others, ''Gem'' Bread. As bread is the "staff of life," it is: very important that we have a good article. Bread made after the following directions is not only the most healthful bread, but the most palatable as well to an unperverted taste :- The flour should be made from the best white winter wheat, by grinding the entire grain moderately fine. No bolting or sifting allowable. Take this flour and mix with cold 'water, milk, or a combination of the two, to such a consistency that when dipped into the moulds it will just even itself off. Use nothing but the flour and water, or milk. No salt. Bake in small iron pans or moulds : the French roll-pan will answer. 'The pans must be hot before the dough is put in them, and the oven must be very hot, so that they will. bake in twenty to twenty-five minutes. If properly made they will be light, sweet, and porous, and may be eaten fresh and warm with impunity. If you fail in making them thus the first time, try again. Bread made in this way is called ''Gems,"' and the pans specially intended for baking it are called '' gem-pans." Pure Lymph.---Dr. Cummins, of Cork, in a letter to the Constitution (June 3) advocates re-vaccination, but makes one or two remarks which tell against the practice :-Sir,- The Mayor deserves much credit for his able and practical remarks at yesterday's meeting of the Board of Gu:rdians, on the value of revaccination ; but he and others seem to labour under a misconception regarding " pure lymph," assuming that that suppled by the London cowpock Institute is taken directly from the cow, which .is not the ease. Ifthe Guardians require '' pure lymph" let them eet it from the medical officer of their own rural districts, who can procure an unlimited supply from healthy country children, untainted by the poison which dissipation and disease generates in the blood of the degenerate town population of London and Dublin. It is now pretty generally admitted that the present epidemic can only be "stamped out' by an efficient system of revaccination ; and the best way to procure the large supply of lymph recessary to carry this out, is, I think, to issue circulars without delay to the rural dispensary physician, offering them large fees for large supplies. It should be stated in the circulars that lymph ought not to be taken from re-vaccinated persons for the as such lymph is always more or less imperfect, and only calculated to bring re-vaccination into disrepute. The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... 1s. 6d. Do. 19} Sop eietateticasiornen(r) 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to.73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Printed <= J. Ward, Caxton Squnke, Dew a The Anti and accinator,  . a Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.8.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. res All Communications to ee sent to the Editor, 73, Cookr idge Str ect, Leeds. "September 2, 1S72 (Pri ice (one Pony. No. 10. a wew Series. Contents, Tre Page Notes on Passing Hvents ......+sessesseees 145 The St. Leonards and Hastings Gazette versus The Times, on Vaccination ......++--.+-- 147 Letter from Dr. Bayard, Paris .........-.- 148 Am instalment from the Press ...... 506... 149 Letter from Baron Holmfeld, Holstein .... 150 Vaccination our Modern Curse .........+-- 150 Editorial Article ..... estate olataberetersiore " challepsfejete 152 Ghne CINOUGEE) conde doen Coamee one OUUOnEOCHOU 154 Walt llesa lene LOSECILULOMIG cicreie 1-10) ole eles e.e:eie'- ovens 155 The Vaccination Question and the Sheffield yaa of (GarendsitinS, GoeonoonoooCKEooouce 156 The Hoyland Nether Vaccination Case Again 157 TMEKCG NEON ic doen OoeoaDOC OOS meaner ate sierra LOO, MSREN OLS Clee ox steten ool ay clot siczeh okeusleie/ osu ievele! ole Toile eveveelis 160 News, &c.-Another Victim to Vaccination.. 149 Notes on Passing Events. In this number of the Journal we have two very important and interesting letters,-one from Baron Holmfeld, of Pinneberg, Holstein ; and the other from Dr. Bayard, of Villeneuve, Paris. The former is addressed to our friend, Dr. Garth Wilkinson, who has kindly sent it to us for publication; and the latter is addressed to the Editor, who is authorised to make use of it. Both of the letters are interesting, as showing how Anti-vaccination views retain their hold upon the minds of distant friends and co-workers, and also as illustrating the fact that the all-important objections to vaccination are one and the same in all countries, This, to our mind, is one link in the chain of evidence which establishes their truthfulness. It is a matter of history now that the same arguments which are used against vaccination are identical with those which were employed a hundred years ago by the men of that time who objected to moculation. In some of our recent researches into the opinions and arguments of the objectors to inoculation, we were struck with the idea that the common sense of the people who detected the pernicious character of the operation which underlies the art of inoculation - yiz., blood-poisoning -was as decided a feature of the agitation in that day as it 1s now with regard to vaccination. And the same weakness which the inoculator showed in trusting to the evidence of statistics 1s manifested to-day; and Death, seated upon his pale horse, rides triumphantly through the land. The strength of our position in the future will lie not so much in exposing the fallacies of medical statistics, as in urging the uncleanness of vaccination, and in exposing the terrible evils arising from blood-poisoning. Dr. Capadon, to whose labours Baron Holmfeld refers, has done' good service in Holland; and Dr. Bayard has been equally industrious in France. The works of the latter are well known in this country. Dr. Bayard's letter is confirmatory of a paragraph which appeared in the Daily News about a month ago, written by the able correspondent of that paper, stating 146 ' The Anti-Vaceinater and that the unvaccinated Paris of to-day was comparatively free from the scourge of smallpox ; whilst vaccinated Jiondon and Berlin were yet suffering from a severe and protracted epidemic. Both writers endorse the idea that the smallpox will disappear on the discontinuance of vaccination, and that the present epidemic is attributable to the smallpox inoculation, which we foolishly designate vaccination. It requires a very few grains of common sense to see the delusion which carries away both the faculty and the great bulk of the people. Baron Holmfeld brings out the gist of the whole matter, when he quotes that it would have been as reasonable to expect the plague, or the biack-pox, to disappear by inoculation of those diseases, as it would be to expect the smallpox to leave our shores so long as we engraft the disease by vaccination. What should we think of a man "who should venture to preach that scrofula or syphilis can be extirpated by inoculating the whole human family with those specific poisons ? We should like to see the man who dared to enter upon such a cru usade r his teaching only as plead a precedent f and the mouths of the faculty aa be pee when he pointed to vaccination. One operation is as reasonable and as scientific as the other; both are blunders in the game degree, and they who would reject the one, should, by the same. 4s process of reasoning, reject the other. We refer our readers to a paragraph taken from Le Soir, on the subject of the cholera epidemic of 1871-72, by Doctor Fauvel, and recently as a to the French Academy of Medicine: In that. address Doctor Fauvel commits himself to the opinion that sanitation has limited the range of the epidemic. To us this is nothing new, as the statistics of the three last epidemics of cholera in England and Wales show a corresponding decrease in the mortality, contemporaneously with the growth and spread of better sanitary 1egulations between each period. Is it not monstrous to suppose that the smallpox can be influenced by any other means? Is it not a judicial and yet he could. [September 2, 1872. oe blindness which prevents the faculty from seeing the ereat fact that to extinguish any or _ all of the as diseases, we must look to sanitation, and not to such miserable and wretched subterfuges as vaccination? The enforcement of such views will avail us more than keeping up a running fire against figures, which, in the hands of designing men, can be - made to prove any absurdity. It is with equal pleasure we point our readers to the testimony of another indefatigable worker. We allude to Mr. Joseph Pearson, of Sheffield, who ventured to expostulate with the Board cf Guardians of that town, ES report of which we have transferred to ur pages. The arguments adduced on that occasion must have "Connect the Board that the death-rate follows closely on the heels of the vaccination-rate. The Board did well to give breathing-time before ordering any more prosecutions under the Vaccination Acts. The Guardians of that Union ought to pause before they throw themselves into the hands of the public vaccinators and the vaccination inspectors, whose interests are Pace by appealing to the "rigours of the law." We point the Guardians to the unsanitary conditions of large districts under ee control, where smallpox, -- and scarlet-fever, locate themsclves, and feed upon <a. overcrowded mass of Onan congregated oe We point them to the dirty and 'intemperate habits of the people, to the ikdly ventilated houses in the courts and alleys, to the defective drainage, and to the accumulations of filth which we have seen and sae and we tell them, that to ''stamp out'? the smallpox, to diminish the death-rate from typhus and scarlet fever, &c., they must not-trust to prophylactics, but to cleanliness in thetr people, both in their persons and in their dwellings. Sheffield, like Leeds and Birmingham, and, in fact, lke all our large towns, has a great work before it, and no greater subject can demand the attention of corporations and other public authorities than the sanitary condition of the town and of the people over whom they rule. Here is their strength. Parliament may enact vaccination laws, Boards of Guardians may enforce them, \ September 2, 1872.) and the faculty may preach up their nostrums, but in the absence of cleanliness all their efforts will fail. There can be no epidemics where there are no filthy conditions. Vain man, whose breath is in his nostrils, but whose quackeries are at his fingers' ends, seeks by his prophylactics to divide the credit of robbing the epidemic of its virulence; but the epidemic will not obey his cunning, nor acknowledge his witcheries. The Syrian would be cured of his leprosy, and the Prophet said- ''Go and-wash in Jordan seven times." His pride rebelled; and he inquired-'' Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel?" Had he tried Abana and Pharpar, his leprosy had clung to him and to his house for ever. The counsel of the Israelitish maid prevailed, and Naaman's leprosy departed from him when he listened to her suggestion, '' Wash, and be clean." Inoculation and vaccination are to us the Abana and Pharpar, and the leprosy of Jenner clin to the nation. '' Wash, and be clean."' is t only preventive; but, alas! it is too sim be followed; and charms, amulets, and prophy lactics, hold their own agaist the teachings of Him who is ''the Father all." The Greeks carved upon their foun their own tongue, the sentiment-'' Wa best." °Tis best, doubtless, either as a preventive or a remedy. Pricssnitz, the Silesian peasant, will one day be held in higher estimation than a hundred men of Jenner's stamp. Vaccination bears upon its brow its own bitter eurse-"Unielean! Unclean!" on The "St, Leonards and Hastings Gazette " versus "The Times," on Vaccination. (See Gazelte of July 16, 1872.) The Bill brought in by Mr. Pease to limit the penalties imposed by the vaccination laws, and\| disposed of for the nonce by the arrival of the hour for adjournment, has given the Times anotoer opportunity to display, not only its infelicity in dealing with a question that it does not understand, but also of re-asserting statements that have been again and again refuted. The Yimes professes to appeal to facts; but its real appeal is to mere exploded fancies, and its inferences, however plausible to the unsuspecting reader, are as totally wanting in substance as the baseless fabric of a vision. Those who, like ourselves, have for years and years past torn off the thin veil of sophistry from the figures of certain officials who live on vill God  . 147 vaccination, and have exposed to the broad light of day the astounding facts which underly and falsify what are supposed to be Government statistics, can atford to smile at our great contemporary, whose adoption of exploded fallacies, and whose utterly false teachings in connection with vaccination, are such as to justify the regard in which it is held. as the mis-leading journal. It is said of the Zimes that it has many bad qualities, and one good onc,-the latter being that it discovers a truth after everybody else has discovered it. And thus it will-be with the truth about vaccination. it will one day discover. when it can no longer stem the irresistible tide of others' discoveries, that the statements hitherto propagated in support of vaccination and revaccination have been done from erroncous assumptions. .But,.in the meantime, the real philanthropist must deplore the ignorance of the Times on a matter so vastly affecting the health of the nation as does this so-called vaccination. With the discredit which a journal heaps upon itself by such a course we have nothing to do, but with the detriment to the community which it serves for a time to uphold we have the right to speak out ; and we tell the Zimes, and its thousands of dupes, that. if with unveiled vision they could have scen vhat we have seen, and have read what we have placed before the public during a score of years past, they could not fail, like ourselves, to denounce the whole machinery of vaccination as a vile delusion and asnare. From its first adoption until now, the bideous thing has been stealthily and proeressively deteriorating the strong and carrying off the weak, by sapping the foundation of health in multiform insidiousness, whilst it has done more than anything else to propagate tho one disease against which its promoters. tell us if is a pretection. It is now proved to be an undeniable fact that in all towns and countries where vaccination has 'been most rigidly enforced, by far the greatest amount of sickness and mortality from smallpox has occurred. Thanks, however, to the discernment of a few sturdy friends of the people, a host of opponents has been raised to lay bare the gigantic frauds of vaccination; and the havoc of the monster must ere long be arrested, notwithstanding the failure for a time of Mr. Pease's Bill, and the loud (but harmless) thundering of Printinghouse-square. The editor of the St. Leonards and Hastings Gazette has been, for the last twenty years, to our personal knowledge, one of the staunchest friends of the Anti-vaccination movement. Like ourselves, he had the advantage of an acquaintance with the early controversies carried on by Mr. John Gibbs in the pages of the Brighton and Hastings popers Convictions like his, which have stood the snceers, the obloquy, and the calumnies of twenty years, ought to have their proportionate weight in the estimation of the public. We need not apologise, therefore, for transferrmg the above article to these pages.-Hp. A. V. 148   [September 2, 1872. Letter from Dr. Bayard, Villeneuve, Paris. July 2, 1872. Sir,-Your letter of the 27th arrived safely at Cirey, and, forwarded from there, reached me on tho 1st July. I reply to it briefly. : * 'a Our poor Paris will rise from her ashes, and will be ever glorious for having saved the honour of France, whose misfortunes are countless; a crowned bandit having brought all these ils upon her. LHvery enlightened people that sacrifices its liberty, is sure to fall into misfortunes. The country was beginning to feel and repent of its weakness, when the priest-father tried to renew confidence by submitting his son to a baptism of fire. Hence our misfortunes. T authorise you to select any thing from what. I may write that seems useful to you. You will readily comprehend that these serious troubles have in a great measure diverted attention from vaccination, and that but little is now published here on the subject. , 1. All our rulers have sought fe ee ee ari ropagating vaccination. e destroyer 0 pa eke was ties the rest. He wished to have the Algerians vaccinated; but they threatened revolt, and he was obliged to abandon the idea. | 9. The Academy of Medicine was instituted and subsidised in order to propagate vaccination, which yearly costs us two millions (of francs), taken from the State budget and from departmental and communal funds. cor, 3. Vaccinators and vaccinated are paid, and if that were not done the custom would now be were introduction into France was the result of political, not of philanthropic, schemes. 5. The (supposed) preservation of feminine beauty from scars has contributed to its diffusion. There are truths which should be common as proverbs. T. smallpox is not a malady, but a crisis. TI. Taken naturally, and running its course without complications, it is less dangerous than. vaccination. . Regs TIL. It owes its danger only to complication with other maladies. TY. smallpox naturally attacks children, rarely adults ; but since the introduction of vaccination the contrary has been the case. V. Just as electricity shocks our nerves, and we afterwards repel its influence, so does vaccination crush back the smallpox virus into the system, and, later on, it develops itself in spite of vaccination. VI. Vaccination has displaced mortality, and the consequences of this usurpation are most serious to nations and to familes. VII. smallpox is more severe with the adult than with the child; thus no progress has been: made in hygiene or therapeutics as regards smallpox . Iwill not trouble you with the numerous details that come so readily to my pen, but rather ask you to read a little pamphlet of mine, which was published in England, entitled "Hissay on Vaccination after 'Thirty Years' Tixperience and Obseryation,' by Dr. Bayard, translated by G. 8. Gibbs, Darlington. I do not know where it is to be had. Look in some London catalogue. I should be glad if you would kindly send me a copy here, if that be possible. The Prussians destroyed all my effects at Cirey. To make up for this tedious letter, I enclose you a leaf out of a little book* published a short time ago. In it you will find your doctrines clearly and vigorously set forth. If I should meet with anything fresh, I will forward it to ou. : In the years 1870-71 smallpox made about one hundred thousand victims in France, but the statistics, in the hands of the Academy, will be kept from the public as long as possible. Needless to say that I received the Anti-vaccinator with pleasure, and shall feel the same with regard to all your communications. Keep me informed as to what passes in England. With thanks and good wishes, I am, dear sir, yours very sincerely. A. Bayard. Villeneuve-St. Georges (Seine-et-Oise). *The following is a literal translation of the leaflet enclosed. It*has been torn from a pamphlet on the art of swimming-" LT' Art de Nager"' :- Every time that Priessnitz saw a child attacked by smallpox, he considered that he was witnessing a wonderful spectacle-that of nature effecting in each new branch of the immense tree of humanity the expulsion of the infection of centuries. The inoculation of the virus of the cow appeared to him to be an absurd invention; and all the maladies which are contemporaneous with Jenner's discovery, were only, in Priessnitz's opinion, the interest of the debt which they had prevented the child from paying off with a few pustules. Being only a peasant from the - banks of the Danube, Priessnitz was not aware that he was living in an artificial age, in which maladies. were disguised with mercury, lulled into quietude with opium, and shut back injo the system by the September 2, 1872.]  . a aid of vaccination. In justification of the Silesian, we may mention that excellent men share his incredulity as regards vaccination. May not the words that Sydenham used with reference to Newton's theory be applied to this mode of treatment :- "Truth usually makes its way with difficulty. If this be true, it (vaccination) has succeeded too quickly to be satisfactory to thinkers.' Butletit be remembered that, accerding to Priessnitz, smallpox is harmless. A wet sheet suffices to cure it. An Instalment from the Press. One of the best newspaper articles, favourable to our views, which has of late issued from the press is the following leader from the editor of the Walsall Free Press, of June 15,1872. We have noted of late a very different temper pervading the opinions of the journalists. If the editors of the press would only condescend to think for themselves upon this great vaccination question, we should soon carry our arms into the enemy's camp. Those who have paid any attention to the proceedings of our boards of guardians' meetings during the past few weeks, and have read the returns so carefully prepared by the vaccination officer for the borough, must be convinced that the charge made against our guardians of having neglected to carry out the vaccination laws is unfounded; as out of 908 children examined last week, only 44 were unvaccinated, and of 360 examined, only 16 were unvaccinated. 'This fact also goes to show that the present visitation of smallpox cannot justly be attributed to the want of vaccination. In presence of these statistics, and of the other well-ascertained and (unfortunately) too easily proved fact, that vaccination is frequently the medium of conveying to the patient diseases no less to be dreaded than smallpox, we think it would be advisable for our magistrates to temper justice with mercy in dealing with the cases of those parents who, from conscientious convictions, object to vaccination. It would be no difficult matter, were the present a proper"! time for controversy, to prove that vaccination is no protection from smallpox. Indeed, the following extracts from the writings of a medical authority who stands in high estimation with many of the profession who are staunch advocates of vaccination, goes to prove that, instead of preventing, vaccination tion tends to spread smallpox. The author, after relating many experiments, such as taking a blanket from a bed on which a patient died of smallpox, and placing it over a cow, and then vaccinating several persons (some of whom, as might have been expected, died) from the cow, the author goes on to say-' These and similar facts seem to lead to the conclusion that smallpox and cowpox are not dissimilar diseases, but are identical in their nature." The same author says-'! The epidemic influence of smallpox was greatly increased by inoculation." Now, it must be as evident to every one as that two and two make four, that if cowpox and smallpox are identical in their nature, and inoculation tended to spread the epidemic influence of smallpox, then vaccination must also tend to spread the epidemical influence of that disease. And facts go far to prove that such is the case. Hight years ago there was an outbreak of smallpox in Walsall, but there was no fuss made about vaccination, and in a short time the disease died out: but at the commencement of the present outbreak, bills were issued, and vaccination stringently enforced, and every one knows the result, which is precisely similar to what has taken place in Paris. There, when vaccination and re-vaccination were carried out extensively, smallpox raged; but during the war and the Commune, vaccination was neglected, and in the last mortality returns for that city there was not a single death from smallpox reported. A curious case, illustrative of this same theory, appears in the report of the French Academy of Medicine, in which 437 soldiers who had been revaccinated were seized with smallpox, while the other soldiers who resided in the same barracks, but who were not re-vaccinated, entirely escaped. The surgeon concludes his report by saying-' Can it be that I, by re-vaccinating these men, have been spreading the disease'? Had he read the author from whose work we have given the above extracts, he might have discovered a satisfactory solution to the question. Under these circumstances we think it would be advisable to leave everyone to exercise his own judgment and choose for himself. Wemake these remarks, not from any opposition to the powers that be, but simply on behalf of liberty of conscience. Another Vietim to Vaccination. - Mr. Newsome Senior, writing to the Dewsbury Chronicle of July 13, gives the following particulars:-My child, a healthy and lovely babe, was vaccinated according to law when twelve weeks old. In a few days it sickened; on the eighth day symptoms of an eruptive character appeared, a blackness approaching corruption extended rapidly down the side of his body, extending to the more vital parts, defying every remedy applied, and finally the child died of mortification after three weeks of intense suffering ; and exactly four weeks from the day of vaccination, was carried to its last resting place, on Wednesday, the 10th. The certificate of death was crysipelas; the true cause of death was vaccination, as all my neighbours will testify to any inquirer. And [I . regret I am not the only sufferer in Earlsheaton. I know others, who I trust will follow my example, and publish their cases. For our rulers say they have nothing to do with the good or evil of vaccination, but fine us if we do not obey a law which enforces this wicked theory of vaccination upon us, contrary to reason, science, nature, and the God of nature," .   [September 2, 1872. T5909 Letter from Baron Holmfeld, HOLSTEIN. Pinneberg, July 26, 1872 Dear Sir, From a letter in (No. 2 of the Anti-vaccinator (p.19), I was glad to learn that my friend from the davs of y jou, Dr. Capadon, not only is ahve, but as busy as in his younger days, doing service in the ministry of humanity, reason, and health. Allow me to give you a fair idea of what he did fifty Jeu ago in fighting against that monster ee 288 vaccination, which, in conse nes of the evil propensities of learned professional men to try to convert doctrine into dusty gold, and into the ''fumus" of fame and influence, holds on its mischievous course more boldly and swiftly than ever. Isece from his letter that compulsory vaccination is just now a subject of Parliamentary discussion in Holland. Isn't it a pity that the sober Dutchman should be smitten by the British '' sanies," with insanity ? The fact confirms the truth of the adage, that bad examples corrupt good morals. The history of vaccination shows how quickly evil may spread under the patronage of professional zeal, striving for official authority, influence, and emoluments; while, on the other hand, fifty years of experience and exertion were insufficient to root out the evil. Debility of intellect must be sadly prevalent among mankind when it so blindly yields to authority and stubborn routine. Perhaps, fifty years later, this thoughtless subserviency to evil counsellors will be quoted as a '"'testemonium pauper- tatis" of the public of our age, and will be compared with the superstition of the dark ages, or to the misdemeanours of rulers and judges some centuries ago, when witches and sorcerers were burned alive on account of their intercourse with demons. Swedenborg, the Swedish seer, whose hfe you have written, gives in his Diary (4364) a very appropriate observation on the proceedings of hypocritical promoters of evil principles in spreading their false doctrines :-'' They try to find reasoning people who have no perception of goodness and truth, and who are easily seduced and led away whithersoever it pleases those who take pleasure in misleading. Such reasoners are, as it were, - the arms and hands of evil spirits; as soon as these perceive such as are inclined for reasoning, they captivate them by mere fallacies, and lead them as they think fit, making them. take pleasure in these reasonings, however false and deceitful they may be." In his book, ''Bestryding der Vaccine," the. second edition of which appeared in 1823, Dr. Abr Capadon has fairly demonstrated the danger of the Jenner contriva ice, and met the question of its admissibility with ee and: scientific arguments, almost the same as are now so ably put forth by you a your friends with the addition of fresh and confirmatory evidence. The vaccinating epidemic had not foe reached its acme. Coercion was still out of the question, at least in countries where civil and social liberty prevailed. The extravagance of military rulers who could order every soldier to take a purgative on certain days of the year, and to submit to vomiting on another day, was still ridiculed or condemned wherever a grain of good sense remained; but now, nobody wonders when Government orders the whole army to be revaccinated. Some time elapsed before the brains of a British Ministry of State were invaded by that cowardly state of mind, which the Empress is said to have qualified as '* avachissement,"' when she remonstrated against poor Napoleon's inclination for avoiding the war which has proved so detrimental to France and to himself. How could it come to pass that the very man who once denounced the horrors of Neapolitan politics, seems unconscious that something of the Torquemada spirit has invaded the Councils of State over which he presides, and which have commanded that those parents _ shall be prosecuted and punished who refuse to offer up their children to the modern Moloch? Was it the accumulation of trivial business which obscured the vision of Mr.'Gladstone, when he had to deal with the urgent demands of silly doctors, infarinated with false doctrines, and inflated with lust for power and wealth? That all these poison-worshippers act, as it woke, bond fide, is no excuse at all. The priests of Baal were bond fide too, and we condemn them, notwithstanding. (c) Look at the origin of the poisonous contrivance. Inoculation had been exploded, as having shown itself to be ineffective as to preservation, and palpably dangerous. What if we got the supposed advantages derived from it transferred to another means of illusory preservation, changing only the name and the modus operandi? Ambitious and yain Jenner solyed the problem, and the grand invention of vaccination was started. * September 2, 1872.]  . I5f Capadon was one of those conscientious learned physicians who from their own observations were aware of the fallacy of the scheme. At a comparatively early stage of the doctrine of infection he strenuously opposed it. As he insisted on the necessity of waiting before deciding on the merits of a measure or method which had only had a short trial, his argument, of course, could not but be defective. It is only now, after repeated experiences, that we are entitled to declare that its prophylactic power is a mere figment of the imagination ; while the evils consequent on it are plainly felt. Showing the analogy between smallpox and pustule maligne and the black-pox, Dr. Capadon observes, that we may expect a similar effect of vaccination as if we tried to protect the body against those terrible ulcers by inoculating their virus; and if inoculation. of smallpox be dangerous, vaccination must be so too. The deleterious virus in the lymph being a poisonous germ, the application of it will be tantamount to poisoning the blood, whether the lymph be taken from cows or from children. As every remedy ought to be applied according to the particular constitution, the state of health, and the disposition of the patient, the uniform and universal use of the same means or virus promiscuously to every person, whether infant, adult, or aged person, will cause the prophylactic remedy, like all specifics, to be condemned asquackery. Noone can tell what will be the effect of the nostrum upon the health of every one to whom it is administered. Science is plunged into an ocean of uncertainty, and the more you re-vaccinate the more you will complhcate your course; and as it ought to be left to every one to take care of his own health and of that of his children, or to take the advice of the physician in whom he has confidence, and to follow the way his constitution requires, compulsory vaccination ought not to be entertained. Dr. Capadon brings the question into connection with conscience and religion, beheving that the fanatical zeal of the men of science is only the offspring of theirintellectual pride and conceit, nursed by the want of charity: and really, the legislators and statesmen who work out the panacea to a system of coercion or forcible vaccination, show either a moral indifference tantamount to want of charity, or they show a positive lust for power and coercion incompatible with that human principle of liberty and individual freedom of which they boast of being the protectors and defenders. Compulsory vaccination is merely a manifestation of the spirit which pervades Governments. The liberal rulers are hypocrites who aim at destroying rational liberty, veiling they intention by sanitarian pretexts. See how differently the ''nostrum'"' works on different people. In some if causes a bewilderment in the brains, exciting them to fanatical zeal and doctrinal self-sufficiency. Invading the seats of power and authority, it creates blindness, prejudice, and coercion. In men lke Dr. Capadon, it creates disgust with the excesses just described, and proves the want of wisdom and charity prevailing in the learned corporations, and in the legislative functions of the State. We thank him for continuing his exertions to put a stop to the malignant malady from which Governments now-a-days appear to suffer. We will follow his example.- Believe me, as yal = iQ aH yours faithiully, 1 Dirckinck Holmfeld. Pinneberg, July 26, 1872. To Dr. J. Garth Wilkinson, Wimpole-street, London. Vaccination oor Modern Curse. oo i O! ye cruel Vaccinators, who clothe yourselves in mercy's guise, how long, ye vile impersonators, will ye infernal ills devise ? For Mercy, Truth, and Justice shall never die outright; so rouse ye, Men of Freedom, the battle is to fight ! Such relics of a darker age will crumble and assume decay, when man has learned to be a sage, and Jenner's lymph has pass'd away. Then Mercy, Truth, and Justice will triumph over Might; so now, ye Men of Frecdom, arise, the batile fight! Avise and think! do not rely on bias'd minds, on vain romance ; reflect ! and then you will defy the knave, the doctor, and the lance. "For Mercy, Truth, and Justice will prove that we are right; so now, ye Men of Freedom, arise, the battle fight ! The blood of babes, so clean and pure, is poison'd to avert discase ; instead of which, consumption sure is the result, the law to please. When Mercy, Truth, and Justice ask--Is this law right? "Tis uct! So now, ye Men of Freedom, arise and fight! J. Bainbridge. Spltesatee 1k} the Anti-Caceinator, -- September 2nd, 1872. Raphael Holinshed is the first English writer who makes any reference to the smallpox , and in his Chronicles of England, published in London in 1577, he states that this disease was epidemic during the latter end of the reign of Edward III. (in the year 1366), and that 'it was fatal to many persons, both men, women, and children. Itis, however, believed that the disease had visited our shores long prior to the above period, but that, for the want of correct observation and record, it was referred to and included under the more general heads of plague or pestilence. The plagues of London are known to date so early as the seventh century, and were at intervals more or less destructive up to the eighteenth century. Tt has been thought by some that the smallpox was one of the earliest forms of disease ; but whether this be so or not, it 1s admitted that whatever country or people it visited, its presence was attributable to certain well-understood conditions which obtained amongst them, such as overcrowding in dirty dwellings, personal and domestic uncleanliness, breathing the stagnant air in houses deficient in ventilation, the use of impure water for drinking purposes, and from the accumulation of filth of every description in streets, courts, and alleys, where there was neither fresh air, water, nor sewerage. The erection of cities and towns, particularly in our own country, even up to the eighteenth century, answered in every respect to the above description, and the habits of the people were equally characteristic; and thus, when an epidemic came, or started into life as the sequence of the unhealthy conditions in which they lived, it found a ground ready prepared for the seed, and the ''tramp of death" was heard in every street. The principle above enunciated is illustrated and confirmed day by day, if we trace the rise The Anti-Vaccinator afd [September 2, 1872. and progress of any epidemic in _ foreign countries. India, China, Egypt, or Japan, afford examples which are corroborative of a point no longer disputed. The wretched - inhabitants of towns, villages, or separate huts, which are built in utter defiance of all sanitary laws, are swept down lke grass before the scythe. Build our towns now as they used to be built, and assume the habits of the people to - be the same, and the plagues of former times would come back in all their fury, unchanged in a single aspect. The spotted leprosy or plague which followed the children of Israel in their tents in all their wanderings through the wilderness, and for some time afterwards, when they had settled down in the promised land, was a disease so closely resembling the smallpox, that what noticcable difference there is between the two may fairly be accounted for by the exceptional nature of their food, climate, or race. In the works of the earhest medical writers there is nothing to justify the opinion that the smal]l-pox was a disease so clearly marked as it became in later ages. The writings of Hippocrates, who flourished about the year 400 B.c., have been searched in vain for some clue to determine the point as to whether the plagues of that period could be traced to the smallpox. The works of Celsus have undergone like scrutiny, and with a similar result. Celsus was a Latin physician, who lived and wrote during the reign of Augustus, the Roman emperor, about the year 20 B.c. Rome was frequently visited by severe pestilences. Augustus very much improved the capital, and after his death it was said-'' Augustus found the city built of bricks, and left it built of marble."' The voluminous octavos of Galen have been scanned by more authors than one to see if the plagues of his day could be identified with the smallpox of our own times, but every search has ended in like disappointment. Galen died about the year A.D. 201. He has written on almost every imaginable subject connected with the practice of medicine and of surgery, and his works were regarded as the orthodox September 2, 1872.}  . 153 authority from the 3rd to the 16th century ; but the medical critics of the present day tell us that he had one failmg which detracts from his merit as a physician, viz.:-that he placed as much faith in amulets as in physic. If the plagues and pestilences which afflicted the Romans, either at home or in the camp, or any of them, had been the smallpox, it 1s presumed that a disease so well defined would not have escaped their notice, but would have been pretty accurately described. At the time Galen died, our own metropolis was a populous city, and a city of some note in the world. In Herodian's Life of the Roman Emperor Severus, who reigned from 199 to 211, A.D., Londinium is called ''a great and wealthy city.' That it should be devastated by plagues and pestilences even at so carly a date as the 7th and 8th centuries, is by no means remarkable, when it is remembered that the streets were extremely narrow, many of the houses were built of wood and thatched with straw; the principal buildings were covered with scindule (shingles), some with tegulce (tiles), and but few with glatta (slates): there were no windows in those days, as glass had not thencome into use, and the only opening for light and air was the door, the panels of which were latticed with wood or linen sheeting. In addition to this there was no drainage in the city, and filth accumulated at the front of every door, the unhealthy emanations from which were sufficient to breed ten separate plagues. Up to the 17th century, the epidemics which . £ : " ravaged England are known as the plague, "the black death," 'the sweating sickness," _ <¢ the cholera,"' and ''the smallpox ;"' but, as we have before stated, the smallpox is not mentioned in the works of any English writer as haying visited this country prior to the year 1366. In all probability, however, this was not the first time that the malady which afterwards played so distinguished a part among the different plagues which have despoiled the homes of England, had secured for itself a name as one of the most terrible of all diseases -a name the very sound cf which made the nation shudder-a name whose only synonyme was '' Death!" Historians differ materially as to when the smallpox first sprang into existence. Practically it matters but little in what country the disease made its first appearance ; one affirms it to be of Arab, and another of Saracenic origin. The point, however, is in no danger of being cleared up satisfactorily. We need not stay to inquire whether it be true that about the 6th century a triple coincidence occurred in Arabia, when the smallpox, the measles, and Mahomet sprang into hfe, and entered into a confederacy to disturb the peace of mankind; nor shall we attempt to solve the point as to whether the smallpox accompanied the Koran, when the Arabs, inflated with a desire of conquest, in the short space of a 30 years' war, subjugated the empires of Syria, Keypt, and Persia, and conveyed the contagion into countries where it was a most unwelcome euest. Neither would it effect any useful object 1f we could say that when the Saracens, in the middle of the 7th century, carried their victorious arms into Spain and France, and when the Germanic warriors in the latter country, by superior prowess, repelled the inyader, and obliged him to retreat with his creed, he yet contrived to leave the smallpox behind hin. It would be an equally fruitless task to follow the Saracen fleets into the Mediterranean during their invasions of Sicily and Italy, and when their victorious armies threatened Rome-the boasted mistress of the world; nor yet to determine that their intercourse with Africa and Asia was the means of introducing the new disease into those regions, Dr. Moore, the best authonty, perhaps, has traced the smallpcx in Arabia through the Sth and up to the 11th century; and although it is affirmed that the Crusaders, in the 11th century, brought the disease into Hurope, he states that the smallpox had located itself in Europe two centuries before the crusades. It would avail us nothing if we could trace the disease up to the time of Moses, nor will it be a 154 whit less interesting to us if we can only place its advent contemporaneously with the birth of Mahomet, or with the later date mentioned in the Chronicles of Holinshed. It is more tmpertant for us to know that the smallpox isa iit] into whatever country 1 penetrated, amongst whatever people it found a home, and wherever its ravages decimated the population, the conditions which favoured its devclopment and its diffusion were one and the same; 16 fed upon filth, and claimed its victims where uncleanness and wretchedness dwelt under one selection, indeed, which isa common character- with the rise and spread of h-begotten disease, istic in connectic all zymotic diseases. - God creates - man destroys; healthy life-man poisons God gives us that life in its vital current, and complet his ey or delusion, practically lays the blame upon his Maker. God's lease of life is threescore years and ten, and this too in toil and labour; to half the children born, man hmits the Gore of that lease to ten brief years, and only seventeen in every hundred of the population live to enjoy as full fraition of a well-spent life. God has no more to do with the disease and FE see ee ' the ordering of all invents disease, necessary conseq His wise sine be for the presery Olympian Bee see es than has .an M a Lhomet. are Alia: p ible, they ar other complhea: only weak of a superstitious igposth VOC. = 5Or _ qua apewee 6f medical eience, which for the last two thousand years 'a been an unmitigated failure, a blunder, andacrime. Manisa sanitary animal. The structure and the uses of the skin establish the fact beyond the jurisdiction of doubt or disproof. The treatment of smallpox by the faculty is a piece of jugglery, and bears no relation whatever to the simple nature of the disorder. h is easy "of eure, 1s stare influen ced by 7 § the ruin in death, and then, in when   [September 2, 1872. Pestilences and plagues have been too long regarded as the ministers and avengers of the Most High; but they must henceforth be regarded as things of man's creation. They are nature's protest against uncleanness, and against the general neglect of wholesome sanitary laws. God's mercy is over all His works, and He sits not upon the circle of the heavens occupying Himself with the manufacture of plagues wherewith to destroy His people. Man is hisown worst enemy. Ignorance and superstition have made him view the pestilence as a thing of superhuman origin, and a punishment for national sins : ; whereas it is too true that the plagues of our day, like those of centuries past; owe their existence to the unhealthy conditions by which we are surrounded, and to the irregular and unsanitary lives which characterise by far too gréat a majority of the people. The Cholera. fe Soir of ane 15 has the following paragraph :- An interesting communication has recently been made to the (French) Academy of Medicine, on the subject of the cholera in 1871 and 1872, by Doctor Fauvel. After having rapidly sketched the progress of the epidemic as it attended the caravans of pilgrims repairing to Mecca; after having pxplained the sanitary measures that were taken, and the excellent results which attended them; the learned doctor summed up in the following heseane the present state of cholera in Hurope:-"T will add but one word to explain how different is the epidemic in Asia in 1872, from that of 1865, being much less dangerous, is the slightness of its tendeney to ' spreading, and by the fol, extraordinary immunity which has been enjoyed by pilgrims from the focus of the epidemic,-all circumstances which were not observed in 1865. Dces it not seem that the same conditions which opposed the diffusion of cholera in Europe in 1871, and prevented the admission of importations from Constantinople, have in 'the same way acted in Asia this year? In one word, does it not appear that the epidemic of 1871-72 has everywhere presented less malignity than those preceding it? In conclusion-cholera now presents much less occasion for alarm than it did at this time last year. There now remains but one centre-the north of Russia, and the disease is almost entirely confined to this locality, and has been so for four years; and, judging by these observations, is likely to die away without extending to the west of Europe." ' September 2, 1872.]  . is Wholesale Prosecutions. The following apergs 'tons, taken from the Northampton Hee ercury of January 13, 1872, are illustrative of nae Act eaeotie opposition to the VieGuation' Acts. And as the prosecutions were on so large a scale, and took place between ue suspension of the late 4nti-Vdcceinator and prior to the issue of ths second' series, it is nel 10d advisable to record Noly wticulars here. By Dose pr eecding s Northampton gained for itself an unenviable notorict was held be >RORS 'the Mayo i. FP La or! v, Hsq., J. B. Norman, Msc Hisq., an re eoree Buxton, Esq , for disposing of about 120 summonses ne, agi nee: parties for non-compliance with the Vaccination Api Mr . Tomlin, jup., appeared on behalf of the Northa mpton Board of Guudians to support the summonses, and the two district registrars, (Mr. Thornton and Mr. Robinsen) were present to prove the cases... The following is a list of those who appeared to the summonses :- On Thursday last, a a pa Th iis as iat Robert Barlow, 11, Weston-row. - Defendant said he had determined to resist the law.-The Bench pointed out a him the foolishness of the course adopted by: li My. Tomlin asked for infliction of the full penai y.-Defendant pleaded further that he had no as Split the court was informed that he came out on sepia from Me ssrsv Allchin's works:- ri ' Fined 10s., and costs 6s. 6d., or 14 days. Wm. Floyd, Abington-ierrace. - Defendant's conscienticus objection to vaccination was the cause of delay. From his xpericnce, he would rather treat a child for smallpox than for ¢ any thing produced by vaccination. Fle had no wish to violate the law, but would rather be subject to fine or ee sonment than introduce into his children disases they were not eater to.-The Bench seemed anxious to give him an opportunity to re-consider he mattcr, but the defendant thought it useless for any further time to be wasted on the subject, and a fine of 10s., and 6s. 6d. costs, wes imposed. dohn Franklin, 21, Cleveland-road.- Defendant guid' he had determine d not to have his child vaccinated, and thought the socncr such a law was repealed the better.-lined 103., and 63. 6d. costs, and allowed a fortnight to pay in. Gent, 24, Grey Friars-street.-Defendant had a conscientious objection to vaccination, and was fined 10s., and 6s. 6d. costs, - Datendent.: How much imprisonment?- The Muyor: 14 days. - Datendaant: If everybody was of my mind they vould go to prison.-The Mayor : You can take the 14 days if you like; it is optional.- Defendant: I think it is a pity Members of Perliament have not something better to weed their time.-Mr, Law: George There may be laws which we as magistrates might not like. You comply with the law by paying the fine just the same as you would by going to prison. - Defendant reluctantly paid the amount. William Hasdell, as - Defendant objected to vaccination.-Fined 16s. 6d., including costs. j Edward Hilton, 2, Horsemarket - cottagés. - Defendant disappreved of vaccination.-The Bench gave him 14 days to re-consider the matter. John Mackaness, Stockley-street. - Defendant had always objected to vaccination; not out of bravado, but upon principle, for he had had smallpox in his house, and could cure his children of it faster than doctors could cure evils resulting from vaccination. He knew, however, that the law was too strong for him, for this was the ninth child he had been summoned for, and as he could not afford to] py the fine, he must comply with the law.-The case was ee for the promise to be performed. John Marlow, Victoria-road.- Defendant objected to vacciaa ation, and he was fined 10s., and 6s. 6d. costs. Henry Perkins, Werwen street, and Isaac Powell, 16, Althorp-street.-Defendants were opposed to vaccination, but consented to comply with the law, and the cases were adjourned. ; George M. Tebbutt, 3, Primrose-hill..--Defendant obiecte bon principle, and did not intend to comply. -fFined 10s., and 6s. 6d. costs. Joseph Gadsden, York-place.-Defendant had a sister who died from the effects of vaccination, and his wife (who appeared) said that was why her husband was opposed to it.-Case adjourned for the defendant to consider the matter. George Cox, 10, Weston-row.-Defendant had an aversion to vaccin: 'ution. - Adjourned to enable him to comply with the law. Samuel Corby, Harrold-street.- Defendant was opposed to vaccination, but consented to have it done. -Adjourned. George Jannells, Silver-street. - Defendant's wife's mother had children who had suffered ill-health from vaccination, but defendant row consented to have his child vaccinated. Wilham Garrett, Denmark-road. - Defendant positively objected, and he was fined 16s. 6d., including costs. It may be said that whilst the authorities of Northampton have well nigh exhausted their powers in hunting up refractory parents, still Northampton will 'stand well among those towns which have taken a leading part in opposing the carrying out of the Compulsory Vaccination cts. to a very few years the law-breakers will have every reason to be proud of their resistance, whilst the law-makers, and those who enforced the enactments, will meet with the contempt they have so richly merited. 156 The Anti-Vaccinatot ard [September 2, 1872. The Vaccination Question and the Sheffield Board of Guardians. At the weekly mecting of this board yesterday, Mr. Searle (chairman) presided, and the guardians present were Messrs. Scorah, Fox, Shipman, Barkworth, Robertshaw, Beal, Widdowson, Bacon, and Jarvis. Increase of smallpox.-The visiting committee reported that there were eight cases of smallpox in the house, being an increase of three upon the number in the hospital last week.-Mr. Bennett (relieving officer) said smallpox was increasing very rapidly in his district. The Board and Compulsory Vaccination.-Previous to the board discussing a resolution on this subject, of which notice had been given by Mr. Robertshaw, Mr. Joseph Pearson obtained permission to make a statement. He said he had not come as a deputation, but in the capacity of a ratepayer, and his object was to lay before the Board some statistics relating to vaccination. 'These had been compiled from the returns made by the registrars in the Sheffield and Ecclesall Unions, and were of such a terrible nature that he thought the board would pause before they passed a resolution to carry out the Vaccination Act more stringently than had hitherto been done. In 1862 the cases of vaccination tion were considerably less than half the number of births, yet the deaths from smallpox in that year were only 18. During the same year there was a panic, and in the following year, out of 7,800 births there were nearly 6,000 cases of vaccination. In that year the deaths from smallpox rose to 354. If that were an exceptional case, he should not be inclined to think much of it; but the same state of things was repeated in 1867 and 1868. In 1867 the cases of vaccination bore. a proportion of less than half of the number of births, and the deaths from smallpox were then only 55. On the Ist of January in the following year, the new Vaccination Act came into force, and there were 8,027 cases of vaccination out of a little over 9,000 births. In that year the deaths from smallpox rose from 55 to 395. Mr. Pearson then gave other statistics to prove that, in proportion as vaccination was insisted upon, deaths from zymotic diseases increased. In answer to Mr. Bacon, Mr. Pearson said it was his firm opinion that just in proportion as there was an increase in the cases of vaccination, there was an increase in deaths from smallpox and from zymotic diseases.-After answering some further questions, Mr. Pearson left the room, and Mr. Robertshaw moved his resolution. He said he conceived it to be his duty, and the duty of every member of the board, to assist in carrying out the law, and not to allow his individual scruples or ideas to deter him from so doing. 'The Compulsory Vaccination Act intended that all children under a = certain age should be vaccinated, and it was the duty of the guardians to see that the Act was carried out. His motion was as follows :-''That the several vaccination officers appointed by the guardians be and they are hereby severally empowered to tale all such legal and other steps as they may respectively deem necessary from time to time, to secure compliance with the law regarding compulsory vaccination tion; and that a copy of this resolution, sealed with the seal of the Board, be handed to each vaccination officer." -Mr. Shipman seconded the motion.-Mr. Fox urged that inasmuch as the Board had the power to carry out the Act gently, that course ought to be pursued. He protested against parents being prosecuted for refusing to have their children vaccinated, and contended that the Act pressed with undue severity upon the working classes. The upper and middle classes could easily pay a fine and costs for non-vaccination ; but that was not so easily done in the case of the working classes, and therefore the Act pressed unduly upon them. The vaccination officers had acted without undue severity during the last few months, and he hoped the Board would not alter their mode of action.-Mr. Beal spoke against entrusting such powers to their vaccination officers as were contemplated by Mr. Robertshaw's motion ; powers that would enable them to drag parents before the magistrates, and sendthem toprison. He was not at all satisfied with the principle upon which the Act was based. He was doubtful whether its effect was beneficial, or whether it was a wise piece of legislation; and his opinion was that it would either become obsolete or be repealed. He objected to Mr. Robertshaw's argument that they ought not to allow their individual scruples to weigh with them in the carrying out of the Act. He (Mr. Beal) felt that his scruples were sacred, and he would not set them aside even for Parliament. As one of the guardians, he had no objection to endeavouring to persuade parents to have their children vaccinated, but he would not be a party to enforcing a parent to do to his child what he conscientiously believed was not for its benefit. Te should move as an amendment that the matter be adjourned for future consideration; and he hoped it would be adjourned until after the expiration of his year of office.-Mr. Barkworth remarked that when the gentlemen composing the Board allowed themselves to be put in nomination, it was with the understanding that they would do the work which guardians were expected to do; and if a portion of the work was opposed to their private judgment, the right course to pursue was to carry it out, because it was the law of the land. There was no doubt whatever the law was such that they were expected to see that every child in their portion of the borough was vaccinated. But that should be done in as mild a manner as possible; and he objected to Mr. Robertshaw's motion, because the power was taken out of their own hands, and put into the hands of persons who would endeavour to carry out the Act very stringently for the sake of their own pockets. Instead of allowing the vaccination officers to do as they liked, he suggested that the guardians should authorise them to prosecute September 2, 1872.]  . (c) 157 one or two persons, and that a similar course should be pursued every three or six months.-Mr. Bacon (who had asked the Clerk to read the preamble of the Act) said his reason for asking that to be done was, that opinions as to the efficacy of vaccination were now somewhat changed. When the Act was passed, it was generally believed that vaccination would entirely prevent smallpox. That had turned out not to be the case. Even supposing vaccination modified the disease, he did not see how infection was to be prevented; and therefore it behoved the euardians to act cautiously in allowing prosecutions. Like Mr. Beal, he could not agree with Mr. Robert- shaw's contention that it was their duty to carry out the Act, irrespective of what their private feeling might be. He (Mr. Bacon) could not allow his conscience to be overcome by the law. After showing the difference of opinion that existed on the subject of vaccination, both in Parliament and amongst the medical profession, he said he could never vote in favour of wholesale prosecutions. No person should be prosecuted unless the prosecution was ordered by the Board, and then only when they were in possession of the best information. He desired to ask the clerk whether, as guardians of the Union, they were bound to carry out the Act?-The Clerk: Yes, really you are.-Mr. Bacon: Then there is an end of the matter.-Mr. Shipman said it was rather out of place to argue whether vaccination was beneficial or otherwise. The question was-Must they carry out the law? 'That they were bound to do, and therefore it was useless to talk about their own private feelings and judgments.-Mr, Fox admitted that they must carry out the law, but said they could carry it out with leniency, and not with extreme rigour. What they had to decide was, how they should carry it out.-Mr. Widdowson said the subject under discussion had been frequently before the Board, and he hoped they would now settle it as pleasantly as possible. He objected to giving the vaccination officers power to bring whom they liked before the magistrates, but he was anxious that some course should be adopted by which those who objected to have their children vaccinated might become aware that they were liable at any moment to undergo all the unpleasantness of being prosecuted.-Mr. Bacon said he should move the following amendment :-'' That no prosecutions for non-compliance with the Vaccination Act take place, until each case has been considered by the guardians, and the prosecutions ordered by them.''-Mr. Beal said he should withdraw his amendment, and second that proposed by Mr, Bacon.-On a show of hands being taken, the amendment was carried, the only dissentients being Mr. Robertshaw and Mr. Shipman.- Mr. Robertshaw asked what was to be done with regard to the cases of non-vaccination already reported by two of the vaccination officers.-Mr. Beal urged that there was no necessity for any immediate action with regard to them; they could stand over. until the number had become much greater than was at present the case.-Shefield Independent, Aug. 1, 1872. The Hoyland Nether Vaccination Case Again. Further Prosecution of Turton for not having his Children Vaceinated.-William Turton, of Hoyland Common, who has several times been before the court charged with not complying with the law with respect to vaccination, was again brought up on two charges. The first case was that of Owen Turton, son of the defendant, whom he was charged with not having had vaccinated.-Mr. Gradwell, one of the relieving officers, who had laid the information, said the present was the ninth or tenth time the defendant had been before the court.-Mr. Newman: Never mind the other cases; keep to this.-Mr. Gradwell proceeded to say that the child was born on the 25th of April, 1869, and it was still unvaccinated. He had served two notices upon defendant, in accordance with the Act.-There was also another charge with respect to Albert Turton, another child belonging to defendant. --Defendant: Have you been to my house?-Mr. Gradwell: I have. - Defendant: Where do I live P-Mr. Gradwell: You live in Stead-lane, Hoyland Common.-Defendant : Who did you see when you went to the house ?-Mr. Gradwell: Your wife.-Defendant: Did you look to see if the child was vaccinated ?-Mr. Gradwell: I have nothing to do with looking to see if the child was vaccinated. Itis not, or I should have had a certificate.-Defendant (to the bench): I have conscientious objections to vaccination. Ido not want 'putrid and rotten matter'' introducing into my children. Vaccination does not prevent smallpox. We have a child near us who has been successfully vaccinated Mr. Newman: You cannot go on with it. Will you have your children vaccinated ?- Defendant: I am summoned here to show cause why they are not vaccinated, and I am endeavouring to do so.-Mr. Newman: You are summoned for not having your children vaccinated. 'The law says you shall have them vaccinated.-Defendant: I have been here before, and you have inflicted several penalties. I have paid nearly £7 fines and costs for the same child.-Mr. Newman: Yes, and you are here again.-Defendant: I have been fined the full penalty each time; it is at your option to reduce the fine.-Mr. Newman: It will come double now. Mr. Newman read the clause of the act relating to parents being bound to get their children vaccinated. Defendant said there was a surgeon at Derby up for not having his child vaccinated, and he was fined 16s. and costs. He was some one, so the fine was reduced; but he (Turton) being a poor man, was fined the full penalty.- Mr. Newman : Perhaps he agreed to have it done.-Defendant: No, sir; he said it was wilful murder, when he was before the court.-Mr. Gradwell, with respect to the second case, said the child was born on the 17th of November, 1871, and he had served two notices on the defendayt, and had waited 14 days after the notices 158   [September 2, 1872. expired but defendant had not complied.-Mr. Kaye: Do you mean to set the law at defiance P-De sfendant: I have conscientious objections to vaccination. It is against God's law; it is against nature's law. The children are healthy now, and I do not wish to poison them by inserting "rotten matter' in their system.-The Bench then made an order for both children to be vaccinated. and on the defendant refusing to comply with the law, the bench inflicted a fine of 203. and costs, or one month's imprisonment in cach case, the one to commence when the other terminated. The total costs and fines amounted to £3. 7s.-Mr. Kaye said the defendant had better sit down and consider whether he would have his children vaccinated or not, before the convictions were endorsed.-The defendant took a seat in the court, and at a subsequent part of the sitting he was called up and asked if he would copula with the law, and on replying that he could not, he was removed by the police to the office, as he stated he was unable to pay. At Barnsley Town Hall, on Wednesday, before the Rev. H. B. Cooke, F. H. Taylor, Esq., and J. Dyson, Esq., William Turton, miner, of Hoyland Nether, appeared in answer to two summonses taken out at the instance of Mr. Gradwell, vaccination inspector, and requiring him to show cause why he had not complied with an order of the Bench to cause his two children, Owen and Albert Turton, to be vaccinated.-Mr. Gradwell conducted his own ease; the defendant was represented by Mr. T. Baker, barrister, of London. The case, it will be recollected, was adjourned last court day for the attendance of the SO as a Cooke: I know the defendant, now I see him; he has been here several times before. - Mr. oer: uN pee sir, Which information do you go with first ?- Mr. Cooke (reading the information): ' Owe ea Turton, a child under the age of 13. years." well) : You wish to press the case ?-Mr. Gradwell: I am acting upon the instructions I have received . from the Board of Guardians. These cases were heard before your worships on the 12th June last, when he was fined 20s. in each ease, with costs, and ordered. to have his children raccinated within the space of fourteen days.-Mr. Cooke: You mean to say he was fined last month P-Mr. Gradwell: He was, sir. He had to pay 20s. and costs in each case, and was ordered to have his children, Albert and Owen Turton, vaccinated within the space of 14 days. At the end of a month I had received no certificate of their successful vaccination, and I have received none yet.-Mr. Cooke said, were it not for the strong feeling which had been expressed in Pagliament a few "weeks ago, on the occasion of a debate on vaccination, the proceedings did appear somewhat to assume the form of oppression, bringing aman up who had been fined only a month ago. He did know, however, from the late debate in Parliament, that 'there was a strong feeling in favour of a, strict 'administration of the law. He was sure he did not know how it was, but the man must have (Vo Mr. Grad- some very strong feeling upon it.-My. Bakke: i shall have something to say to the berth before [ have done upon that point.- Mr. Cocke: He was fined a month ago, and I know his face tow when I see him. If he is fined to-day he will be fived ain (c) in another month, it seems. -My. Baker: 'Ike po oliey advocated in the debate 1 by the ministers of the day was very much Hartge oe procéeding a this kind, although it was propose: Lby some p I child by force from its mosher's arms. ane Cooke : It is nearly going as far.-Mir, J Baker: Tie course to adopt Fomd be to dismiss the casé at once. t 3 -Mr. Cooke (to Mr. Grad well) : You must your notice. - Mr. ha the hee ell: ~~ childrer ordered to be vaccinated within fourteoi Baker: Where is the order as Grad veily Eore was a verbal order ees John Ka aye, seal t to vaccinate the children within fo Cooke: I¢ will be in the book here date ?-Mr. Gradwell: The 12th Fike = his (searching the magistrates' book): The 12th June. Here is is.-Mr. Baker: 1 Where is the order? has had no order served upon hith. - (To Me. Grad- well): Are you paid a salary ?- Mr. Gradwéll: I am.-Mr. Baker: You do not expect anything for coming here P= Mr. Gradwell: Nob a penny.-Mr. Cooke: That is so, I know produce the order ?-Mr. Gradwell : Mr. Baker: When did you see the child (Owen Turton) last-?-Mr. Gradweli: On ix 'dias Ta st.---Rir. Cooke: Before proceeding bee the gtatiibe, of 219 necessary that there a be an: order im writing Do you take that obiectio My . Baker: -Mr. Baker: Do you Paosniotssin.- Tl have halt. a-dozen objections 'to ta is e when tha time comes, - Mr. Cooke: Here itis: "Willi as Turton.' There is no order. 'John Garside Gra st "Purteon. Vaccination. 208. each and costs; or one month.''-- Mr. Gradwell: The case wes hen 'd in the court below.-The Mayor (who still occupied a scat on the twell a@atn bench): What does the summons say Mr. Buker: It is altogether informal. It simply s: avs he is 'to be dealt with acc ording to law.' -Mr. Cooke ¢ There is no doubt about the penalty.-Myr. Baker: There is no doubt he was: convicte ed in a ponalty-Mr. Cooke: He is liable to be f fined again ther es no certificate sent, and that is requisite -Myr. Baker: It is not requisite in the parent to send a cobbifieate. The prosecutor must prove that the order has not been comphed with, if there was an order; but in point of fact there has been no order.-Mr. Cooke : The medical officer sends in the certificate.--Mr. Baker: In the first place, theré was no ordor ma oO but I am prepared to go fully into the case fro beginning to end. -Mr. Cooke: I 'would sugees whether there is any possibility of putting an end to this case. I do not like to see the defendant coming before us time after time in this wav. He must have some extraordinary scruples. I disagree with the man entirely, but I do not want to see him ruined.- Mr. Baker: his is the ninth summons he has received.-Mr. Cooke: I disagree with him, bus still I do not like to see him coming before us so often.- Mr. Baker: Proceedings of this kind amount to persecution. A short time ago I had an interview aya iv a 5 U r L fod September 2, 1872.] with Mr. Stansfeld, the President of the Local Government Board, and was saying to him that the magistrates seemed to imagine they had no discretion in the matter. He however contradicted my assertion, and read the section which says they may, if they think fit, fine a man when he is brought before them a second time; and Mr. Stansfeld added, 'I should not think fit." Even the Ministers, in the debate, acknowledged that mischief is sometimes done by vaccination ; and not only were there many on both sides of the House, but even the President of the Local Board is himself very much opposed to these proceedings. Besides, on the point of discretion, thore is nothing in the statute which takes the discretion from the Bench,-Mr. Cooke: I think I understand the question a8 far as a man who is not a lawyer can do.-Mr. Baker: I think I can satisfy you that the magistrates have a discretion. The London magistrates have refused to convict a second time, and here we have the ninth summons. To convict a man a second time for the same offence is contrary to the common law of England, and there are no express words in the statute which say you are to fine a second time. I apprehend that the prosecutor's case is closed. If you treat this as an original proceeding, then you require a notice, and no notice has been served or attempted to be proved. It requires fourteen days' notice, and the summons cannot be issued till notice has been given requiring him to have his children vaccinated. You can only take out a summons if he has neglected that notice, and there having been no such notice, the proceedings must fall to the ground.- Mr. Gradwell: There was a notice on May 10th.-Mr. Baker: That has been dealt with, and my client has been fined.-Mr. Gradwell: I presume it is not necessary to serve a fresh notice -Mr. Cooke (to Mr. Baker): I believe you are quite right. What holds good in A cannot hold good in B.-Mr. Baker: These proceedings look like repeated persecution.-Mr. Cooke: You are right, and we dismiss it, and give this poor man another opportunity. Is there no means of getting to the end of it? Mr. Gradwell is the servant of the Guardians, and of course only acts according to his orders.-Mr. Baker: Let the Guardians write to Mr. Stansfeld, and ask whether he approves of their repeated proceedings.--Mr. Gradwell: Not many weeks ago, a man was fined fourteen timesin Derby -Mr. Baker: I presume I need not trouble you with the case of " Allen v. Wortley," upon the subject of notice ?-Mr. Cooke: The notice ought to be renewed, but that does not end the -case.-Mr. Baker: Both sides of the House admitted that mischief was done many times. I have myself seen many gentlemen who have seen it. The defe ndant may have seen it, and he considers himself the guardian, under God, of his own child._-Mr. Cooke: The law is the guardian of all the children o the State.-Mr. Baker: I am simply asking you to act in accordance with the spirit of the Act of te ment.-Mr. Cooke (to Mr. Gradwell): You must give a fresh notice.-Mr. Baker: The spirit of the Act of Parliament and the English law is, that there should be only one penalty. Therefore, why not  . 159 leave the man alone? I believe he has an action against the magistrates for these proceedings, but he is a poor man. -Mr. Cooke: The poor man has as much justice as the rich; if anything, the leaning is in his favour.-Mr. Baker: I belive you have no power to imprison him for a single day.-The case was then dismissed. - Mr. Baker applied for costs, under sec. 31 of the Act.-Mr. Cooke declined to certify the costs. The clause said "may," not "shall."' - Mr. Baker: I was. informed that the poor man had as much justice as the rich.-Mr. Cooke : I said they had equal justice, but if anything, leaning was to the side of the poor man. The costs are not allowed. -The case then terminated,- hice Chronicle, July 27, 1872 Middleton. Thos. Okell, Cross-street, Middleton (third time), was fined 20s. and costs, and George Hilton, of Bowlce (first time), 10s. and costs, for non-compliance with the Vaccination Acts. - Mrs. Hilton appeared for her husband in the last-mentioned case, and handed the following letter to the Bench:- "To your worships the Middleton Bench of Magistrates. As my personal appearance before your worships to answer the charge preferred against me would put my employer to considerable i imconvenience, I beg (in accordance with the last clause of the 11th section of the Amended Vaccination Act, 1871) that your worships will kindly allow my wife to appear onmy behalf. Imay, however, inform your worships that I am acquainted with numberless instances in which vaccination has proved worse than murder, as it has to my own knowledge imparted the foulest of diseases ; even my own youngest brother, who, like the rest of the family, was quite healthy up to being 'vaccinated, began shortly after the operation to ee uk out in sores and gatherings all over the body ; ixteen of these g: atherings were cut by the lancet and so di ungerous was the child's condition that our family and friends expected death to put an end to his inigery ; but he is now 18 years of age, though he has never been well from being vaccinated up 'to the prosent moment, notwithstanding his having been long under medical treatment. These statements can be confirmed by our family and neighbours who are acquainted with this painful history. Now, seeing that no medical Fontiomen, however skilful, can guarantee that the like results would not follow on our child, if we allowed the operation, or that it would not have the smallpo x, or even die of that disease, we dare not run the risk of its undergoing SO ee as and uscless. an operati on. We hold these as reasonable grounds for refusing to have our only a yaceins ated, and accor ding LOUseCs ZO, under which I am summoned, your "worships can accept them as such, and law ful ly dismiss the case. That your worships 'will kindly be pleased to take this view of the case, 1s the prayer of your humble servant, George Hilton. Bowlee, July 31, 1872." Both fines, we are informed, were paid by the local branch of the Anti-Vaccination League.- of ldleton Altion, Aug. 3 3, LO 2. 160 ~The Anti-Vaccinator. [September 2, 1872. Exercise. Physical exercise isas much a necessity of our being, as eating, or breathing, or sleeping. True, we can live without it longer, but we cannot live healthfully. No function of the body can be properly performed without it. Respiration, circulation, digestion, absorption, secretion, excretion, one and all are slowly and imperfectly formed without the rousing, stimulating, and vitalising effects of exercise. He who does not take exercise knows not the pleasures of health, of good appetite, good digestion, free and full respiration, refreshing sleep. The amount of daily exercise necessary for health depends upon the kind of exercise, and varies considerably with different persons, and with the same person at different times. A safe rule to go by is, to exercise until slightly fatigued. It should not be continued so long that half an hour of perfect rest will not entirely remove all feeling of fatigue. Special exercise for retaining or regaining health should not, as a general rule, be taken less than two or three hours after a meal, except it may be some slight exercise, as moderate. walking, riding, &. A person should always be thoroughly rested after exercise before eating, Perhaps the very best time of day for taking exercise is from 10 to 12 o'clock in the forenoon, although the time may be varied to suit the person's convenience-always observing the above rules. . The kind of exercise best to be taken in any given case depends upon the person's conditions of health, strength, and occupation. Persons in good health, who are not ce mentally or physically, will be benefited by almost any form of exercise, as walking, running, rowing, swimming, skating, dancing digging, gymnastics, &c. Persons suffering from any form of chronic disease, business and professional men, and others engaged in any sedentary or other occupation in which one portion of the body receives more exercise than it needs, while the others get little or nonc-these persons require some form of exercise which shall bring into action the unused portion of the body, oqualise the circulation, soothe and rest the nervous system without exertion or fatigue of body or brain, as the brain and nervous system have already done more than they ought, and need rest. Active exercise in these cases, while it often apparently and really benefits, does so at the expense of vitality, which we can ill afford to waste. Passive exercise, or that in which the person is acted upon by other persons, or by machinery, without effort of will or muscle on his part, is what these cases require. Rubbing, kneading, manipuilations of various kinds, shampooing, vibrations, &c., are the most important forms of passive exercise. Those who have never tried it, can have no idea of its soothing and resting effects upon tired brain and muscle. One of the most useful features of the Turkish bath, and the one upon which its pleasurable and resting qualities mainly depend, is the shampooing, which is simply one form of passive exercise. Horses are always "rubbed down" after long or fast driving. Why should not men be treated as well after sreat exertion of body or brain? Are not men and women of as much consequence as horses? If this treatment will improve the appearance, speed, health, and strength of horses, it will do the same for men. Prizc-fighters, and others in training for any great feat of physical exertion, are treated in the same way, and with the same results. Why should not the great benefits of these passive exercises be made available for higher and nobler purposes? Why should not the artist, the auther, the banker, the business man, the clergyman, the doctor, the lawyer. the legislator, the manufacturer, the student, the teacher, receive the benefits of this treatment, as well as our horses and prize-fighters? If this practice should, as it ought, be generally adopted, we should have more beautiful pictures, better books and papers, more successful business men, more eloquent clergymen, orators, and lawyers, a higher education, better morals, less sickness and suffering, and more perfect and beautiful men and women. Erratum. In page 188 of No. 9, line 35 of second column, for "prosecutions are"? read '' productions is." Anstors to Correspondents, OO SA on oe wort San cot te, co? Son oe Sa, ah an oe a. wet Fa. oe "Salle sae Sa ee 'In answer to your inquiry, whether the magistrates (in the case of a distraint for the costs of a prosecution under the Vaccination Acts) have a power to dispose of the goods either by public auction or private sale, we answer, that the magistrates can use their own discretion. They can sell by public auction, or they can have the goods valued, and sell privately. "4.'' (Meadow-lane, Leeds).._The evidence taken before the Select Committee on the Vaccination Acts, is published by Messrs. Kyre and Spottiswoode, price 7s. It can be ordered through any bookseller. "Z," (London).- Certainly. The Anti-Vaccinators throughout the country must rouse themselves for a more vigilant agitation during the ensuing winter. If we do our duty in this behalf, the Government will, of their own accord, bring in a Bill in the course of next session. SISOS > - Cad SR CI its PIR loo pte Iya NRA ATS 14) Nie - - . me Pes wld) en a wet et ele her ele tye Thieme ee >. - - - $e ' The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- for G months..... Acerca cota Ones "Do. ale 0) we lel aastere [ely 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. " Printed by J. ward, Caxton eitiare, Dowsing: Qe eatny any, ee see to The Anti- V accinator, and  . ce Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.8.8., F.8.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Andti-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. KE All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. Wo. D1. ] New Series. September [Price One Penny. 16, 1872. + Contents. wr Page The Local Government Board and Repeated IPENAIGICS. <2. <.c1e'e.c' Statcsarsvsiorsversiais) is sieie ave) ere 161 St, JO OF CUBIN@S PogacococuoobUacbolSUCaD 163 smallPox in Scotland .........0c0--eecee- 164 Hypodermic Injection of Lymph in Treatment of smallPox.........ccesees 165 A Word of Advice to Stephen Cave, Esq. M.P. 166 Cure for Zymotic Diseases .............+:- 166 Anti-Vaccination in Swansea and Maryport 167 Hditorial Article 2... cccccceccccccecscerccs 168 Queries Waiting for an Answer ...-.cc-eee ial The Paris Mortality Returns (1872)........ 172 An Objector's Opinion of Compulsory AViAC CUI GL OU yal clots ete sl e¥elolele' si otave steieiclelaiels.eieie 172 Jottings from the Lancet ...e.scecessseeees 173 Extraordinary Prosecution at Dewsbury .... 174 Prosecutions :-Salford, Hadleigh .......+.. 175 VA CCUMATIOIN SOMME sicrcle's)cleicleicie sieieieiole)sleieielsie/eie 176 Mr. C.S. Read, M.P., and his Pet Nuisance 176 The Local Government Board and Repeated Penalties. We publish the following official correspondence :- Teeds Board of Guardians and the Vaccination ; Acts, 1371. Leeds, August 30, 1872. Sir,-I have to inform you that I have had no less than six summonses for neglecting to poison my little girl (born in December, 1869) with the virus of smallpox; and I am informed that the Leeds Guardians have instructed their clerk to take out a seventh summons as soon as the Leeds Stipendiary returns to his duties. The particulars of such summonses are as under, viz. :-~- lst summons to appear, 5th July, 1870; adjourned to 2nd August. 2nd August-fined 20/-, and costs 9/6. 2nd summons to appear, 2nd November, 1870 ; adjourned to 8th Nov. 8th Nov.-order made, costs 11/-. 3rd summons to appear, 38rd February, 1871; fined 20/-, and costs 8/6, 4th summons to appear, 21st Aug.; order made, costs 8/6. 5th summons to appear, 22nd Nov. 1871; fined 20/-, and costs 13/-. 6th summons to appear, 24th April, 1872; order made, costs 8/6. Let me say-First: that there are thousands of children in Leeds unvaccinated; and the repeated prosecution of one man is unjust- nay, it is persecution in its worst form. Secondly: the Leeds Board of Guardians know that my conscientious convictions are so strong, that I am so opposed to the practice, and that the law has yet to pass that will compel me to submit my healthy children to such a superstitious and mischievous rite, that their prosecution of me has descended to the level of a personal struggle to see which is the strongest of the two, and it has no higher meaning. No man knows better than I do how the Vaccination Act is estimated by the masses of the people. If the poor-who have to bear the brunt of the battle, in that their children have to suffer the most, and to perish in greater numbers than the children of their richer neighbours-were canvassed the country through, 162 nine out of every ten would vote against the observance. The middle classes are opposed to the practice, and were it not for the fearful power wielded by the magistrate in enforcing cumulative penalties, their opposition would be shown ina far different manner to what is 41s at present. The upper classes who may be opposed to the practice, run no risk of a visit from the vaccination mspector; and if they submit to the law, they have the means to purchase care in the operation, and' their children are better able to resist the vaccine disease. To speak of vaccination being a prophylact IC is simply a contradiction in itself. The virus now used is smallpox matter merely passed through the cow, and then transmitted through generations of children, some healthy, and others the subjects of diseases which shall be unmentionable: and how can that rite anything but a disease-producer? 'There is prophylactic but ckeanliness. There can be be no no epidemic where there is no filth. Why should I give my children a disease-the disease of a S aa vaccination-when it is admitted that it beyond the power of any hving man to tell me whether in the virus the vaccinator proposes to use there may not be lurking the poison-germs of diseases which are infinitely worse than the smallpox ? [would sooner that all my children had the smallpox, than that any one of them should be vaccinated. 3 Well may the death-rate be Seneeles oo determined bythe vaccination-rate! It1 and effect. Give up vaccination -in ce words inoculation, for they are identical in every point-and smallpox will follow the same law which has swept away its companion diseases of the middle ages, such as the plague, the black death, the "sweating sickness, &c. Whether we go to Berlin, to Paris, or limit our inquiries to England, Scotland, or ireland, wherever there has been the best vaccination there has been the greatest mortality from smallpox and from zymotic diseases. Te AD ase ise Ever since vaccination was taken in hand by the State in 1841, and with every succeeding attempt to enforce vaccination, the death-rate among our people has correspondingly in- |   [September 16, 1872. creased. Dr. Farr dare not deny it, and Dr. Simon cannot. Facts are stubborn things. The statistics of vaccination tell a woful tale. In conclusion: the Local allow me to ask you whether Government Board does not feel '¢alled upon to iiterfere in my case, and intimate to the Leeds Board of Guardians that any further proceeding gs against me are as undesirable as théy are unnecessary and vindictive.-I have the honour to be, sir, your very obedient servant, 'Tae aS olecn nie: o the Right Hon. Stansfeld, M.P., President of the Local Government Board, London. Tas Dd. (Copy. Local Government Board (Medical Department), Whitehall, 5. W., 5th September, 1872. Sir,-I am directed by the Local Government Board to acknowledg pene receipt of your letter of the 30th ult., oid to observe, that they have no authority to interfere with Boards of Guardians to prevent their exercise of the powers entrusted to them under the Vaccination Acts for the enforcement of vaccination.-I am, sir, your obedient servant, Herbert P. Thomas, for the Medical Officer. Mr. J. Pickering, Anti-Vaccinator and  , Cookridge-street, Leeds. " Judy's" Pleasantry on the 'Anti-vaccinator.''- The Anti-Vaccinator 1s probably published for the particular delectation of the 'Peculiar People." Judy doesn't pretend to know anything about medines W hen. she is told she "wants a pill, 'she swallows it. The discovery that vaccination won't prevent the smallpox may be very valuable to those whom if may concern, but Judy happens to have been vaccinated before the fallacy of the idea (if it is a fallacy) was found out, so it can't matter much to her. Sanitary Condition of New York.-The Lancet for July 20 states, that "3800 persons die from smallpox every week" in New York. This would be equal to "about -1,000 per week in London: and surcly we may challenge the Faculty to show proof of anything worse than that during the last century. This, moreover, isin the city of tyrannical vaccination "ree culations," where it is hard to land unvaccinated emigrants, -A..W. smallPow in Ireland-The Lancet of July 20 reports, that "of zymotic diseases, that which prevailed to the greatest extent" during the first quarter of the year, " was smallpox-no less than 373 deaths having occurred during the quarter." September 16, 1872.]  . 163 An Act of Justice. | To the Editor of the Anti-Vaceinator. Sir,-In October, 1871, a requisition, signed by 678 ratepayers of Banbury, was presented to the Mayor, John Griffin, Esq., M.D., asking him to call a town's meeting to consider the advisability of repealing or amending the law relating to gon gina, aecination, The Mayor thought proper to refuse compliance with this request, accompanying that refusal with a letter giving his reasons forit. A copy of the Banbury Guardian, containing the whole of the correspondence, was sent by me to Mr. Pitman, who then conducted the Anti-Vaceinator; but for want of space a part only of the Mayor's letter was inserted, and he complained that this was an injustice to him, as that part of his letter containing the ."reasons'' was entirely omitted. I then wrote Mr. Pitman again on the subject, but as the publication of the journal was about to be discontinued, the matter had to remain as it was. Since the commencement of the new series, however, Mz. Griffin has again called my attention to the subject, and 1 have now much pleasure in forwanding you a copy of the letter referred to, and shall be elad if you can find space for its insertion. There is one other matter I wish to mention. In Banbury we have two sets of magistrates; one acting for the municipal borough (the Mayor being chairman of this benc 'h), and the other acting for the non-cor porate Pp arts of Banbury. Both these benches of oe have recently dealt with vaccination cases; but the latter have inflicted the full fine; the B: =e Magistrates proper, of whom Mr. Griffin was chairman in b87d., have only inflicted half the fihe and cx epenses. - Yours truly, oe Pre Banbury, Sept. 10, 1872. rbs. To Messrs. Gillett, Py overbs, Mawl, and Walker. Gentlemen,-I have carefully considered your memorial so numerously and respectably signed, requesting me to call a public meeting to consider the subject of the Vaccination. Act, and, in the exercise of the discretionary power vested in my office, have come to the conclusion that it would not be conducive to the public interest to comply with your request. As you are aware, during the last Session of Parliament, certain of our representatives, instigated by those of their constituents who hold views similar to your own, asked for a Select Committec to consider the subject of Vaccination, and the continuance of the Vaccination Act. That committee was most properly granted, they thoroughly investigated the subject, the most forcible evidence for and against vaccination was brought forward by both its advocates and lopponents, and the conclusion arrived at was "That it was conducive to the public interest that the Act should continue in operation.'' Under these circumstances, in a matter that so deeply concerns the public health and welfare, I think I ought not, inmy public capacity, to do anything that, might increase or perpetuate the prejudice that already exists in the minds of acertain portion of the public, the more so, that a no mean professional experience of nearly forty years has convinced me not only of the efficacy of vaccination, but of the great blessing it has been to mankind throughout the world. I am exceedingly sorry to decline acceding to any request of my fellow-townsmen. It is the privilege of Englishmen, and one I would be the last person in the world to abridge, to meet together to discuss public questions and grievances, real or imaginary. I shail, therefore, whilst declining a public meeting, place the Town Hall at your disposal, to call a meeting for the purpose you mention, but on your own responsibility. ou eS me the honour to asl mo to preside at the en 10: Aes scting. Had I acceded to your request, and the iieaine been held, I think I should have been quite out of place'as chairman. Occupying that post at the Borough Bench of Magistrates, it has been my duty, and it may be so again, to give a decision, not as to the merits or demerits of vaccination tion, but as to whether the Act has been complied with, and, if not, the penalty attached to its non- Observance. I tail, under these cee if ought not to have faken the chair, and a still stronger reason against it is, that (as 1 have observed before) my long experience has led me to strong convictions entirely opposed to yours, and it might be my lot to heir statements' made, which I have often seen in print, so contrary to my own convictions, confirmed by practical experience, that I could scarcely listen to them without contradiction ; and yet Ishould be precluded from doing so by the desire to act with that impartiality w hich ought always to be the study of the chairman of a public niectiny. I have entered thus fully into the subject because it 1s a serious one, and I feel so deeply that' I have, for the first time during my yerr of office as Mayor, to refuse the request "of a portion of my fellow-townsmen, worded in so courteous a manner.-I am, Gentlemen, Your obedient servant, John Griffin, Mayor. Compulsory Vaccination.-If vaccination is not an i as biessing, but often the cause of untold sulfiring and death from most loathsome diseases, on He ag Ey of the Royal College of Surgeons | even, it is the duty of parents to look the matter in tho face, and study for themselves 'the truth and value of medical assertions, "And any legislation compelling such parents into a course of medical action against their deliberate, conscientious conviction, is guilty of an outrage upon humanity, and a sin unto itself,-B. A. Milner, in the Keighley News. 164   [September 16, 1872. smallPox in Scotland. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-I herewith enclose you copy of a letter addressed by me to the Right Hon. James Stansfeld, M.P., on the statistics of the smallpox epidemic in Scotland, together with copy of a Memorandum on the returns of the Irish Registrar.- Yours truly, iT Palcor. Kingscote, Wokingham, Sept. 2, 1872. Letter to the Rt. Hon. James Stansfeld, M.P. Southsea House, Threadneedle-street, July 8, 1872. Sir,-Evidence having been given before the Vaccination Committee of last year, to the effect that smallpox had been prevented in Scotland and Ireland by the operation of the Compulsory vaccination tion Acts, 1863, I beg to call your attention to the returns of the Registrar-General for Scotland, by which it appears-l. That the Compulsory Act has been in operation eight years. 2. That 97:7 per cent. of the children born have been vaccinated. 3. That during the epidemic year 1871-2, Scotland suffered a mortality from smallpox half as much more than England during the previous year 1870-1; the death-rate from that disease in England having been 1 per 1,000 of the population, and in Scotland (1871-2) 14 per 1,000. 4. That whilst the London 8.P. death-rate had been 24 per 1,000 in the former year, and that of Wolverhampton (the town in which the disease appears to have prevailed with greatest intensity in England) nearly 4 per 1,000, the smallpox death-rate in Dundee, 1871-2, during eleven months from August to June inclusive, reached upwards of 5} per 1,000 (more than half that of Berlin during the last quarter of 1871). 5. That in the eight principal towns of Scotland (1871-2) the proportion of smallpox deaths among children under five (the remainder from five to eight, corresponding with the period of compulsory vaccination, being included in returns from five to twenty) to total smallpox deaths, was 23 per cent. ; and in Dundee, during the first five months of the present year, the proportion of smallpox deaths reached no less than 37} per cent. In Ireland, the quarterly returns are not given in such a manner as to enable the proportion of children to be calculated, the ages not being discriminated, nor are the returns for the separate districts complete. The only available information, as far as I know, is supplied by the Registrar-General of England, from whose weekly returns we learn that the annual rate of smallpox mortality in Dublin during the six months last past, has been 74 per 1,000 of the population, ¢.e., three times the London _ rate last year, nearly double the Wolverhampton rate, nearly half as much more than Dundee, and almost equal to Berlin. (Signed) 'T'. Baker. The Right Hon. James Stansfeld, M.P. P.S.-I beg to append Memorandum on the general character of the Irish Registrar's returns. Memorandum. In reading the remarks from Irish registrars, one cannot but be struck with their general uniformity in ascribing all epidemic or endemic disease to '' contagion'' imported from some other place, just as I observe cholera is about to be imported into undrained Berlin. According to these gentlemen, all of whom appear to be medical practitioners, considering themselves in some degree responsible for the health of their districts, no febrile disease is ever indigenous in Ireland. £.g., smallpox, whenever any explanation of its occurrence is attempted, is as invariably ascribed to importation. In one place it attacks a child "brought from some part of Scotland a few days previous ;" in another, it is "introduced into the district from Belfast ;'' here, the first case "' imported it from England ;' there, '"'from Newcastle ;" now, "from Middlesborough ;" then "the deceased had been visiting Liverpool ;" again, from " one of the Dublin hospitals ;" "from Dublin;" "from England," 'directly imported from Liverpool;" 'could distinctly trace the infection to Belfast;'' "had left Belfast a few days before ;"' " from another district ;" 'clearly from Belfast ;" "always from Belfast," &c.. &c., in forty-one other instances in the course of the three quarterly returns ended March last. It is the same with scarlatina, the same with typhus, or any other fever-always imported from other places. Yet, in one of these latter cases (febris enterica) the patient is described as ''inhabiting a very small one- roomed cabin with three aged and infirm human beings and two goats.'' These simple-minded gentlemen probably never heard of such a power in the human constitution as acclimatisation, or adaptability to evil surroundings, by virtue of which the inhabitants of warm climates are seldom attacked by yellow fever, until strangers, generally the last new comers, have been first struck down. Whilst, however, the re-introduced doctrine of "contagion" prevails in high places, so that in England a poor man can be punished for selling a newspaper not sufficiently " disinfected ''-(as recently occurred at Ryde) on the information of an 'officer of health," who at the same time declared that during forty years he never carried contagion in his own clothes from patient to patient (being disinfected by going out into the air)-we cannot wonder that an Irish registrar should regard-"J think the disease was September 16, 1872:]  . brought from Belfast by the child's father or his servant: both having been vaccinated, neither took the disease, but they probably brought it home in their clothes: this, I think, clearly demonstrates," &c.-as evidence. Another writes:-'' No case of smallpox, measles, &c., have I noticed. The former disease, I attribute its non-appearance to the fact that vaccination has, I believe, been particularly attended to."" Coming froma medical man, however, such stuff is quite sufficient to work upon the ' superstitious fears of an ignorant population. Accordingly, we find another reporting that one death from smallpox 'has produced a very great terror, which caused pressure for vaccination." One gentleman, indeed, has the good sense to ascribe five deaths from fever to "the filthy state in which the houses are kept, where cattle and people sleep and live in one apartment." Another writes-" It is a common occurrence to see two or three pigs in the houses of some families; in fact, I have seen the kitchen of a house converted into a stable, the horse standing in one corner, and the family eating in another." In ninety-three instances describing the occurrence of smallpox, the Irish Registrars have made no allusion to the patient having been vaccinated or not. From the general tone of their reports, however, it is clear they are educated to believe in the infallible efficacy of vaccination; that they feel themselves to be held in a sense responsible for having properly vaccinated the people ; and that they are subordinated to superiors expecting them to execute what is considered to be an important duty. Hence such remarks as "vaccination strictly enforced," "the people seem quite willing to comply with the law,' "vaccination is well attended to," "the Compulsory Vaccination Act doing a grand business here," &c., run through these reports, in addition to the praises of re-vaccination, which they all regard as of '' the utmost importance.' The very common expression, speaking of unvaccinated cases, '¢ who had never been vaccinated,' shows the bias, and occurs in 22 cases mentioned in the three above-named reports; four are reported 'doubtful ;" in six cases ''no information '"' could be obtained; one *' did not seem to have been vaccinated ;" " one was not, as far as I could ascertain ;'' one was attacked 8 days after successful vaccination ; 25 had been vaccinated ; one had an attack after previous smallpox, andone ''had neglected to get himself re-vaccinated ;"' which last seems to have been quite a sufficient cause for the attack, in the mind of the Registrar. Wherever the disease has not spread, it is thus attributed, as a matter of course, to re-vaccination, so that, notwithstanding all this importation from hundreds of miles distance, in one instance we are told that even "smallpox of a very virulent character has surrounded the district, but ( very fortunately) never entered it."' One of the Dublin Registrars affords the following curious piece of evidence, which may be taken for what it is worth : -'' Upwards of 2,000 persons were vaccinated here last year, and in no case where the operation was successful, except one or two-(except one or two who 165 took the smallpox before the eighth day)-did they take the smallpox at all." From this we may, if we please, infer that the remaining 308,000 of the Dublin population furnished the entire 7} per 1,000 smallpox mortality. The only attempt at discriminating ages is given in Belfast, number four, last quarter of 1871; and in that quarter and district, out of ninety-three smallpox deaths, twenty occurred among children under ten, or 224 per cent. Probably, therefore, were it possible to get the ages, the compulsory vaccination in Ireland, as regards the proportion of children dying from smallpox to total from that disease, would turn out pretty much the same as in Scotland; thus exhibiting a most damning failure of a horribly disgusting superstition. The last persons to be convinced of their error, as a class, however, will be registrars and public vaccination tors, because before them it is necessary that the eyes of the Registrar-General should be opened, as well a ee of the Medical Officer Commanding-in- ief, Hypodermic Injection of Lymph in Treatment of smallPox. The readers of the Anti-Vaccinator are aware that an altogether new system of vaccinating has been introduced recently by Mr. Furley. The peculiarity is-that the vaccination is performed during the progress of the disorder (smallpox) ; and that instead of putting a few drops of "lymph" into the arm, a tube-full, or-better still, two tubes full-are injected wnder the skin. The idea of Furley is, that it stops the disorder at once. In the Lancet for July 20, Dr. Grieve (Hampstead Hospital) concludes his experience of the "cure" :-" From the history of cases as given in this paper, the profession will be enabled to form its own opinion of the value of Mr. Furley's cure for smallpox; but, having carefully watched the cases while under treatment, and compared the result with that in others admitted during the same period, I feel myself justified in saying, that in not a single instance did the treatment exercise any beneficial influence either over the progress of the disease or over the result, but rather the contrary. Consequently, the opinion forced upon me is, that the hypodermic injection of lymph in smallpox is worse than useless." The '' cases" here given had before the injection three, two, four, and three "vaccination marks" to begin with; and the only addition required to Dr. Grieve's remarks is (I would suggest) this-"'and it was further evident that vaccination with any number of marks is equally useless." When will the profession see that fF A. W. 166   [September 16, 1872. A Word of Advice to Stephen Cave, Ksq., MP. During the examination of Mr. Candlish, M.P., before the Select Committee on the posse Acts, a passage of arms took place between himself and Mr. Cave, M.P., the subject being on the duty of the State to enforce compulsory,vaccination, on account of he danger to the unvaccinated, and irrespective of the conscientious scruples of objectors. In question 99, Mr. Cave asks- 99. Of course, one very much: respects . conscientious people; but do you consider the Legislature ought to consider the scruples of individuals in the case of danger to the public >-Inasmuch as the case supposed implies danger in a degree, and in a degree only, the severity, or otherwise, of the action of the Legislature would necessarily depend upon the degree in which the danger arose. 100. Supposing we decided from evidence before us, that in a very- large majority of cases vaccination tion was efficacious, would you not then consider that the Legislature ought to disregard the conscientious scruples of the minority, on account of the danger which the public would run?-No; because Ido not see the danger. You assume the effectiveness of vaccination. If vaccination is effective, there is no danger except to the unvaccinated. 'Of course, one very much respects conscientious people.' How much, Mr. Cave, M.P.? Ihave no high opinion of your respect, Mr. Cave, M.P. If conscientious people were left to your tender mercies, they would find them crucl enough. To be dragged away from business, and brought as a criminal before a magistrate, and to have to penalty, is an act of the grossest tyranny; an act for which the exigencies of the case afford no justification. And that is a specimen of your respect for " conscientious people"! One penalty; Mr. Cave, M.P.-for what? For preserving the health of my child; for saving ' it from being inoculated with the beastly virus of. Jenner. Oh! sensible Mr. Cave, M.P.! How can corrupt matter protect the body £ from. disease, Mr. Cave, M.P.? Did you ever ask yourself that simple question? If you did, how did you answer it? Tell us the mental process, if any such there were, and at what time of life you were conyinced 'of the efficacy | and wisdom of vaccination. If your children are vaccinated, Mr. Cave, M.P., they are safe; they run no danger in consequence of mine being unyaccinated. bear even one | Believe me, Mr. Cave, M.P., it is my children who are in danger because of yours being vaccinated! smallpox, lke the leprosy and the plague, would die out of itself, Mr. Cave, M.P., if you, and those who think with you, did not keep it alive by continually grafting it upon the human stock. The hidden abomination of Jenner is the curse of our houses. Cast it hence, Mr. Cave, M.P., and future ages will extol your penetration, "and award you your due meed of praise. Cure for Zymotic Diseases. Scarlet fever andsmali-pox underhydropathy, or the water cure treatment, are diseases harmless and speedily removed: death, the rare exception instead of the rule, as is the case (specially in scarlet fever) under the drug, spirit, wine, bitter beer, porter, &c. method. Typhus fever and diptheria lose their deadly character under the same simple remedy, which is also a rapid cure for rheumatic fever. The moment the patient is placed under the water cure, the progress of the disease is arrested, and the healing process commences; whilst under the drug, spirit, &c. treatment, in addition to the baneful effects of the disease is the more baneful effect from the remedies, making the chances 100 per cent. greater against the patient's recovery than if the fever had been left solely to nature. In the '' History of Cold-Bathing," by Sir John Foyer, of Lichfield, Kt., and Dr. Edward Baynard, Fellow of the College of Physicians, London, ann. 1732, pr 228) these eminent writers say :- I hold ten to one on the water cure against drugs, &c., and all that hot regimen which inflames and exalts the blood, breaks its globules, and destroys the man; and then. forsooth, the doctor sneaks away like a dog that has lost its tail, and cries it was a pestilential malignant fever, that nobody could cure ; and to shew his care of the remainder, bids them open the windows, air the bed-clothes, and perfume the room, for fear of infection, &c.; and if he be of the right whining, canting, prick-ear'd stamp, concludes, as they do at Tyburn, with a mournful ditty, a psalm, or preservative prayer for the rest of the family, &c.:-so exit Prig, with his starched formal chops, ebony cane, and fringed gloves," &c. &e. The results from the treatment are the same at this day, and the doctors attribute the high death-rate to ''a more malignant form of the disease than they had ever seen before," -all humbug. It is the vaccination, drug, spirit, September 16, 1872.]  . 167 wine, bitter beer, porter, &c. treatment, and having a large number of patients collected together in rooms or wards, and under the same roof, and bad ventilation, which causes these diseases to continue to be so malignant and so fatal. The late Sir J. Y. Simpson, M.D., in his pamphlet on '' Hospitalism," writes :- The excess of 629 deaths in hospital practice as compared with rural practice-in our palatial hospitals as compared with our rural villages and cottages-in wards as compared with isolated rooms, -is certainly much greater and more prominent than I myself expected when I began the present inquiry. But, must the calling of this dismal death-roll still go on unchallenged and unchecked ? Shall the pitiless and deliberate sacrifice of human life to conditions which are more or less preventable, be continued or arrested? Do not these terrible figures plead eloquently and clumantly for a revision and reform of our existing hospital system ? A. Trevelyan, M.8.S. A. Anti-Vaccination in Swansea and Maryport. The Cambrian has published several letters from Mr. Parsons, of Newport, and the replies of Mr. Padley, surgeon, Swansea, pro-vaccinator of the old school. Mr. Padley, in his last letter, has done his best to overwhelm his antagonist by re-producing the report of the Metropolitan Asylums Board. That report has been a perfect God-send just now, and we hear of nothing save the "startling facts"? contained in the said report: it will be a nine days' wonder. If Mr. Padley had not shirked a few of the queries (c) contained in the following remarks, he would have done better service to his cause than by referring to a report the sophistry of which he cannot see. Professor Huxley says disease arises from germ causes. If so, would not the creating of disease tend to increase the food upon which it lives? In Newport a very few cases of smallpox occurred in the unhealthy and unclean parts of the town. Re-vaccination was instantly enforced, and the disease progressed fearfully , from an insignificant number in the beginning, to 99 in a week, as published in the Star of Gwent, till at last the mortality was reported as one in seven, without recording the cases of two medical men in large practice who refused to make a return. You will find it further reported that as many diced, that had, as had not been vaccinated. These are startling revelations. I am grieved to find that the Lancet is as severe upon all who are anxious to obey the laws of nature as it was in upholding the unlimited use of the lancet during the fearful scourge of influenza about the year 1837. Does not that prove how requisite it is to humble ourselves before the living God, whose promises and judgments are sure? What causes madness, the increase of which is fearful? Itis reported there are 58,640 cases at the present time, with an increase of 1,885 since the first of January last. The prevailing opinion has been that it arises from over-study, want of rest, quick transit, &c. 1f it were so, the majority would not be paupers, as is the case. There cannot exist an effect without a cause. What is the cause? In his reply, Mr. Padley says- Your correspondent, Mr. Parsons, of Newport, will excuse me if I do not follow him through the wide range of subjects indicated in his letter. The discussion of them would be scarcely suitable to your columns, and if they were, would require far more space than you would probably be able or willing to devote to them. This is the way in which Mr. Padley deals with questions of such magnitude as those referred to by Mr. Parsons. If the Cambrian cannot find space for Mr. Padley's defence, we offer it tohim. Mr. Padley knows as well as we do that he has no answer to make: if he had, the Cambrian would gladly receive it. When will such self-deceivers as Mr. Padley see that vaccination, and re-vaccination, produce the very disease which they propose to 'stamp out''? It is cause and effect. They accomphshed this in Newport, and in every town and village where the practices have been enfurced. In addition to propagating the smallpox, the practices are disease- producers; they promote diseases of every shape; and Mr. Parsons puts a very close question when he points to the increase of insanity amongst the poorer classes of society, and aslks-'* What is the cause ?'' O!if wecould but ' stamp out"' this thrice-accursed thing which goes by the name of vaccination, our disease-rate would decline just in proportion as it has increased, and ever will increase, with the entorcement of a rite whichisa disgrace to the age in which we live. Sir D. Corrigan, M.P., and his *' Barrel of Gunpowder.'-On such suppositions as that of Sir D. Corrigan, given before the Parliamentary Committee -"that an unvaccinated child might be compared to a barrel of gunpowder ;" or of another authority- that ''an unvaccinated child is like a bag of pestilence, and its parents guilty of manslaughtor;" compulsory vaccination has been continually increasing in stringency, and if not opposed,. will be ripe for the suggestion of Lord Salisbury, which was embodied. in the bill of Lord Buckhurst- 'that a policeman should be sent with the vaccinator to enforce the law.' Prevention of crime is the duty of a free state, but when positive compulsion on passive citizens becomes its acknowledged duty, the door is open for compulsory military service. The bodies of ourselves and our babes are no longer our own, but mere machines and playthings in the hands of despots. Vaccinators have yet.to prove. the truth of their theory. If it was an undoubted biessing it would prevail by its own force.-Keighley News. France Free from the Cholera Epidemic.-Cholera is ravaging Russia and Germany. We remain free from, its attacks, owing to the rigorous execution of the measures ordered by the International Sanitary Conference-Le Soir, Aug. 19, 1872. Wor,   [September 16, 1872. The Anti-Gacctnrator. on a September 16th, 1872. The tinting of a picture exhibits a marvellous taste in the arrangement and manipulation of colours; and, strange as it may seem, the effect is produced by three primary colours- red, blue, and yellow. These three colours, when combined in various and unequal proportions, produce, every tint and shade that is to be found in nature or in art. When they are combined in twos, they produce the three secondary colours-blue and red make purple or violet; yellow and red, orange; blue and yellow, green. The grays, pinks, and browns are compounds of the three primary colours mixed in three different proportions. Again: white light is composed of the three primary colours; hence if a disc is divided into three portions, and painted red, blue, and yellow, and then, by a simple mechanical contrivance, is made to revolve rapidly, the surface of the disc appears as though it were painted white. The three elements, to use the illustration figuratively, which are necessary to produce health, are-pure air, pure food, and pure water. These, then, are the three primary colours or elements which produce the unity - health. And as any one or all of these are deteriorated, in that same degree or ratio disease of one kind or other is set up, so that there is a unity or uniformity in the elements which combine to constitute health; and the absence of these induces a corresponding state of disease. This theory is singularly illustrated in a paragraph in Miss Florence Nightingale's ''Notes on Nursing,"'* where she says :-''Is it not living in a continual mistake to look upon diseases, as we do now, as separate things, which must exist, like cats and dogs; instead of looking upon them as conditions, like a dirty and aclean *" Notes on Nursing for the Labouring Classes." By Florence Nightingale. New Edition. London: Harrison, 59, Pall-mall, 6d. condition, and just as much under our control ; or, rather, as the reactions of a kindly nature against the conditions in which we have placed ourselves? I was brought up, both by scientific - men and ignorant women, distinctly to believe that smallpox, for instance, was a thing of which there was once a first specimen in the world, which went on propagating itself, in a perpetual chain of descent, just as much as that there was a first dog (or a first pair of dogs) , and that smallpox would not begin itself, any more than a new dog would begin without there haying been a parent dog. Since then, I have seen with my eyes, and smelt with my nose, smallpox growing up in first specimens, either in close rooms or in overcrowded wards, where it could not, by any possibilty, have been 'caught,' but must have begun. Nay, more, I have seen diseases begin, grow up, and pass into one another." 'I have seen, for instance, with a little overcrowding, continued fever grow up; and with a little more, typhoid fever ; and with a little more, typhus; and all in the same ward or hut." Now, here is the testimony of a watchful observer, who can say-'"I have seen it." First, continued fever; secondly, typhoid fever; and, thirdly, typhus. And, possibly, if there had been no immediate relief from the pressure of overcrowding, or if there had been added to it a want of water, or water saturated with impurities of animal or decayed vegetable matter, another change might have resulted, and malignant cholera or smallpox, as a rule, would have declared itself. And yet, medical men would have us fain believe that diseases of the zymotic type are necessary evils-things which must be, as the changes of the moon, or the movements of the planetary world: that they do exist, and are fatal to so many, is our own fault. For the sake of argument, it is needless to decide the question as to what is the nature of the substance which constitutes the ultimate germ either of typhoid, typhus, cholera, or smallpox. It may be a chemical substance, developed into activity by conditions which have been described; or it may be owing to September 16, 1872.}  . 169 infusoria which are roused into lfe by the presence of unhealthy conditions which are necessary to their propagation. Whichever of the two it may be, one thing is certain-that the germs or the infusoria are so infinitesimally small, that science, with all the appliances of chemistry, assisted by the microscope, may never see the atom or the infusoria. The bloodhound can follow his prey for miles by the scent which the fugitive has left in his track; but the presence of this matter in the circumambient air can never be detected-still it is there. The only true preventive for any of these fevers, is to see that on no occasion and under no combination of circumstances shall the conditions be found co-existent at the same time and place, which are necessary to generate the seed atom or the infusoric life. A fever is Nature's protest against a state of things which should not exist-it is, therefore, a blessing in disguise-but it should never be fatal; neither would it be so, if it were treated properly, and in a sanitary and scientific manner. The strongest count in our bill of indictment against vaccination ts, that the vaccinator communicates, in the most direct form, to the blood, the virus which is the congeries of conditions which we ought to shun, as, indeed, we would the bite of an animal in a state of hydrophobia. To infect the blood with the saliva from the mouth of a dog which is mad, or an ox in the rinderpest, would only be a folly equal to that which is performed when a child is inoculated with the vaccine Virus. The causes, then, which give rise to and propagate diseases of the zymotic type, are within our own control, and are preventable. They may be briefly summed up thus :- 1. Overcrowding in unhealthy dwellings or workshops, where there is insufficient ventilation, and where animal or vegetable matter in a state of decomposition is allowed to accumulate. 2. Cities, towns, and villages which are badly constructed-narrow streets, courts, and alleys, and the cul de sac-where the air is stagnant, and charged with all sorts of impurities, and where middens and other similar nuisances poison the circumjacent air. 3. Exhalations from polluted rivers, marshes, bogs, undrained lands, and open sewers. 4. Improper and insufficient diet, habits of intemperance, excess in eating, idleness and immorality. 5. The general unsanitary habit of life, such as the neglect of ablution and the free use of pure water, the want of proper exercise, and other irregularities of a like. nature. To the causes above particularised, if so disposed, nine-tenths of the ''ills that flesh is heir to"? may be traced. The other tenth part may be said to be made up of hereditary diseases, malformations, and irregular or anomalous formation or structure of parts of the body, which interfere with the otherwise healthy functions of life. To the removal, therefore, of the causes which are disease-producers, the efforts and the skill of sanitarians and philanthrophists must be directed. The Legislature can do much- the People can do more; but the people must first be taught the importance of the subject in all its relations to their daily ife. Our children must be educated in the science of life-how to preserve it, and how to promote it. Knowledge which, in its results, can save or destroy, must not be left to get anyhow, or not to get at all. Social and sanitary science, by producing a healthy mind in a healthy body, will teach a man how to regulate and economise his life; reason will teach him how to utilise it; w#nd reyelation will inspire him to live not unto himself, but unto God, that when the vision of this passing scene shall end, his highest life shall culminate and find its completest and happiest development in that '' Jerusalem which is above, and 1s free, and is the mother of us all." Sanitary science is a handmaid to religion. The one great requisite before religion can affect the mind, is that sort of preparednesg for the '' seed of the Spirit"' which every true Christian has experienced in his own history, when the mind lay fallow, as it were, considering the aim and scope of existence, wondering how to unite itself to God, and looking first to this source and then to another for that help and direction which cometh only 170   [September 16, 1872. from above, and at last the revelation of Christ, '""mighty to save," 1s made to the soul, and then man's truest hfe begins. - Like many other students, we have read and re-read the Jliad and the Odyssey of Hfomer, and with ever recurring pleasure: nevertheless, we had failed to connect the mythology of Greece with the better religion which was so immediately to succeed it, and it was not until we recently perused Mr. Gladstone's new book, Juventus Mundi, that the point was brought out, and the whole thing appeared to us Im a new heh. "cia speaking of the Olympian religion, he says, at p. 876 (quod vide) :-- We have seen how closely, and in how many ways, it bound humanity and deity together. As regarded matter of duty and virtue, not to speak of that highest form of virtue which is called holiness, this. union was effected mainly by lowering the divine element. But as regarded all other functions of our nature, outside the domain of life to God- ward, all those functions which are summed up in what St. Paul calls the flesh and the mind, the psychic and the bodily life, the tendency of the system was to exalt the human element, by proposing a model of beauty, strength, and wisdom, in all their combinations, go elevated, that the cffort to attain them required a continual upward strain. It made divinity attainable ; and thus it effectually directed the thought and aim of man '¢ slong the line of limitless desires." And again, at p. 377 (g. v.) he says :- The sacred fire, indeed, that was to touch the mind and heart of man _ from above, was in preparation elsewhere. Within the shelter of the hills which stand about Jerusalem, the great archetype of the spiritual excellence and purification of man was to be produced and matured. Buta body, as is were, was to be made ready for this angelic soul. And as when some splendid edifice is to be reared, its diversified materials are brought from this quarter and from that, according as nature and man favour their production, so did the wisdom ef God, with slow but ever sure device, cause to ripen amidst the several races best adapted for the work, the several component parts of a Christian manhood and a Christian civilisation, 'The kings of Tharsis and of the Isles shall give presents; the kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts." Every worker was, with or without his knowledge or his will, to contribute to the work ; and among them an appropriate part was thus assigned both to the Greek people, and what I have termed the Olympian | religion. Thus the preparation of the heart in man, and the preparation of the mind and thought of a nation, are, alike in their conception and disclosure, the work of the ever-liying God. The lesson that we wish to enforce is this :- That in the unfolding of the great deception of vaccination, in exposing the ravages of that disease in connection with the mortalty of the people, there is a diviner light to come out of it, in that the mind of the people is undergoing a process of preparation for the eventual advent of the time when they shall be governed by hygienic laws and sanitary regulations, both in the preservation of health and:'in the cure of disease. Vaccination is a plague, and physic, as it is practised now, is nothing less than a pestilence; and they who have learnt to hate the one, shall soon learn how to despise the other. The blindness of the Faculty to the evils of vaccination is a judicial blindness-a blindness that precedes the revealing of great truths; and reformation, as in all other movements which affect the wellbeing of a nation, will be inaugurated by those who grasp the immediate relation subsisting between the rite under review, and the diseased condition of the country, but have no connection with the art or practice of medicine: reformation will come from without. Some of the faculty, endowed with more prescience, are discovering in the signs of the times the beginning of the end, and are stepping in to prove -what Anti-vaccinators have believed and preached for the last twenty-five years-that diseases are communicable, and are multiplied by an observance which can be of no benefit, but, on the contrary, is accountable for a vast amount of misery and death. The great object of the Creator is, that man should lead an active, useful, healthy life ; and the body, as a whole, as in each of its parts and functions, is constructed in perfect unity with that object, and we are surrounded by ail September 16, 1872.] those physical conditions which minister to the same end; and if any one particular life, or the ageregate life of a people, fails in reaching that goal, it is not God but man that is to blame. If this were not so, man would present the only instance in creation where the thing created was not able to fulfl or accomplish the purpcse or design of the Creator. The infinite and the all-wise God has made no such blunder. All He has left nothing therefore, to (c) 45 b His works are perfect. for man to mend. To attempt, mend His handiwork is to mar it; and to vaccinate is to impress upon natures highest gift healthy offspring. condition a disease Bf U as U o-married . life Queries Waiting for an Answer. Zo the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-Again I appeal to your declaration- 5) ro) diss that you intend to include within the scope of your paper the discussion of all measures which affect the public health-for an opportunity of making some observations on matters now absorbing the attention of the thinking population. There has been so much difficulty in obtaining convictions, and so impossible is it to get justice administered at Warwick by the local juries, that the Town Council have thought it necessary to petition Government to abolish the Quarter Sessions at that place. The Railway King of former days proposed to strike an average of accidents to railway passengers, and thus silence the complaints of the minority of cripples. 'justice at Warwick, and the excess of it, under the head of '' Lodging Houses and Infection" (in the case of Best v. Stapp, tried at the Queen's Bench on Sth and 6th July), appeared in the Pall Mall Gazette of the 8th, we ought to be satisfied with the average. The Daily Telegraph of the 8th July likewise has an editorial article on the case, referrmg to the well- established nosology of scarlet fever, in proof of which the writer quotes the following :- You will be asked (Dr. Watson used to say to his pupils) at what period the danger of imparting the disease is over, and I. would recommend you to answer that you donot know. Jam gure I do not; As the article of the shortcomings of.  . U7 and therefore I decline the responsibility of giving | an oracular opinion. Then comes the assertion so well known in the case of unvaccinated babies, that. scarlet fever patients are no less dangerous to those about them than is a tin of nitro-glycerine. The Leaminer of July 13 winds up the week with ''The Spread of Disease" :- A more typical case than that of Best v. Stapp could not be wished for. . . Even the Tory party has taken for its motto- Sanitas sanitatum, omnia sanitas.". . . What is really needed is " positive knowledge' of disease and its natures Thus, it appears, the first thing is to obtain 2 conviction, and then to ascertain the nature of the offence by '' positive knowledge." I have not been able to find a report of the case of Best v. Stapp, but I have noticed that up to this day no article, no letter from a correspondent, or paragraph, has appeared in The Times. Perhaps that paper may be one of the ''thinking population"' referred to in your first number of the new series (April 15), and have bethought itself of an outbreak of the same disease (scarlet fever) that occurred at the same place (Hastbourne) some few years ago, which was largely referred to in The Times of the period. The story was, that a youth (one or more of the members of whose family had sickened and died of scarlet fever) had brought the disease to a lodging in Eastbourne, whence it had spread oyer that once favoured spot. After continued and continuous inculpation of the parent for the injury, bodily and commercially, inflicted on the inhabitants, the father of the young man wrote a letter to The Times, to the effect that it was rather hard upon him, in his distress, to charge him with the heavy responsibility implied. None of his family, except the victim of the disease, had suffered from scarlet fever; and his poor son had been six weeks at Eastbourne before he was attacked. Hereupon a number of medical men signed a testimonial as to thé perfect salubrity and immunity from disease of Hastbourne. Such a voucher from duly qualified medical men ought to have silenced all doubt; but (Gf I am_not misinformed) a letter written by a gallant officer of the army was admitted into the columns of The Times, asking the question- 'Tf Hastbourne is such a healthy place, how 1s it there are such a lot of doctors there?" L never saw the reply.-_lam, &. Jj C.J, August 15, 1872. = Lay   [September 16, 1872. Paris Mortality Returns (1872). The From Official Sources. Week | Week | Week | Week | Week | Week | Week ending | ending | ending | ending"| ending) ending ending July 6. July 13.\July 20. July 27.;Aug. 3./Aug.10.|/Aug.17. smallPox : es 0 if 2 3 1 6 2 Measles .. oe es 27 SUS 23 19 20 t5 6 Scarlatina 2 4 4 3 4 0 0 Typhoid Fever 8 18 10 14 13 15 1 Erysipelas - 5 8 8 14 7 2 40 Acute Bronchitis. . 2a, 20 21 25 13 7 10 Pneumonia Re as we 36 48 23 43 20 46 29 Dysentery He dt 2 2 4 6 10 8 Choleraic Diarrhoca (young children) a: il Ay 23 49 52 27 se Cholera Nostras .. : 'e 1 4 3 Aa Eas 3 5 Quinsy 6 7 8 6 9 3 5 Croup 6 2) 10 14 10 al 8 Puerperal Affections 8 fl 5 Zh 6 2 6 Other Acute do. OOF) A 4d | GAD | 289 12282) 278 Chronic do. of 2S yaee26 297 +) 315 3205-14238 Surgical do. 40 41 58 47 YS 48 69 Accidental Causes 13 29 32 24 26 22 16 Torah 660 | 689 | 696 | 789 | 850 854 | 725 An Objector's Gpinion of Compulsory Vaccination. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaceinator. Dear Sir,-I was greatly delighted to receive the first number of the new series of the Anti-vaccinator. It seems very stranye that we should now have to be fighting out the battle of hberty in England-the battle that has been fought, and triumphantly fought, over and overagain. Butit is clear that no form of government, and no advance in liberty, is proof against the most dangerous retrograde tendencies. Those accounts of the martyrs of legalised blood-poisoning before the magistrates, read strangely hike the accounts of the persecuted Quakers of two hundred years ago. The power of priestcraft is on the wane, so far as the interests of the soul are concerned ; but we have now a priestcraft who, under pretence of the "cure" of bodies, are as effectually robbing English citizens of their liberty, as those who had the 'cure of souls" used to do in former times. It makes one's blood boil to read of the shameful treatment of Charles Washington Nye and those other noble defenders of the right of private judgment, who, rather than violate their conscientious convictions, and risk the health and the lives of their children, in subserviency to a medical dogma, are prepared to endure the shameless terrors of a modern inquisition. This one number of the Anti-Vaccinator contains enough to condemn the whole systern, both on the physical ground and on the ground of liberty. But whilst doing all that can be done to ascertain and to disseminate the truth on the physical ground, it is most important that a concentrated and irresistible effort should be made to rouse the whole nation to a sense of the gross wrongs and shameless cruelty now being inflicted by the magistrates in the name of law and justice; a process which, while it robs the citizen of his birthright, tends most effectually to bring the law into contempt. Nota Session should pass before the shameful and unprecedented cruelty of repeated punishment for the same offence is done away; and no rest must be allowed until all compulsory infliction of unknown diseases is abolished. If people prefer to inflict a certain disease, in the hope of escaping a possible one, in the present controverted state of the question, by all means allow them to do so; but to make its matter of compulsion is beyond the province of legitimate legislation ; and the repeated punishments for the same offence are simply monstrous in their high-handed trampling on individual right and conscience. Even if vaccination could be proved to do all that its supporters maintain, exemption from a loathsome bodily disease would be bought too dear if it were bought at such a cost as this. Such facts as you bring forward, however, will go far to convince the public that statistics have been tampered with, and that the fancied security for which liberty has been sacrificed is nothing more than an idle dream. I most sincerely wish you success in your noble work, and I assure you that I shall lose no opportunity, as has been my plan for years past, of uttering my protest, both in public and in private, against this loathsome and tyrannous institution,-I am, yours truly, Keswick, Sept. 9, 1872. Samuel Fothergill. September 16, 1872.]  . ane Jottings from the '" Lancet." In a leading article on Mr. Furley's system of sub-cutaneous injection of vaccine virus in tubes full, for the cure of smallpox, we have the Lancet's complete demolition, let us hope, of this abominable practice, The editor personally observed five of Dr. Grieve's cases, and reports that there were seven cases in all, and no modification in any. '' Two of the cases he observed died." In one there was pyzemia. (This is the disease which several children in this locality, who have died from vaccination, have been reported to die from.) The editor says of the pyzemia death-'' It is difficult to doubt that the fatal issue was connected with the operation." In four others there were local affections sufficient to prove that the system had been damaged. One had revolting abscesses, from one of which came 'eight ounces of pus." The editor sums up with the remark, that it is 'a useless and risky procedure." Wecannot forbear quoting one argument more against Mr. Furley, because it is unanswerably against vaccination of all kinds:-''Our reason for doubting was chiefly because it seemed so amply contradicted by the frequent instances in which vaccinia and variola have gone on part passu." The number for August 3, 1872, has a long leading article upon the Report of the Managers of the Metropolitan Asylums, touching 14,808 cases of smallpox treated in their hospitals. It appears that of the 14,808, the facts of vaccination are only reported ''in respect of 5,539."" Let us note and remember in respect of all hospital statistics this remark : -'* Those who have had most experience will admit that it is not always easy for the most practised observer to satisfy himself how a patient in the eruptive stage of smallpox has been vaccinated, or even, in regard to a large | number of cases, whether he has been vaccinated or not." -This sentence occurs just before the statement that '' 45°76 per cent. of unvaccinated males die." This is asserted after coolly informing us that only 5,539 of 14,808 had the number of vaccination marks, and that it was difficult in many cases to say if the patient were vaccinated or not! Further, after endeayouring to show with great clearness that a great number of ''marks'' means a small number of pits, and forgetting that they have condemned Mr. Furley's practice of a '' greater quantity" of vaccination, they say-'' In the light of such figures, it seems almost immoral | it really come to this? to vaccinate slightly or imperfectly, for by so doing we greatly increase the risk of our patient taking smallpox, and of his dying after he has taken it." Here is another couple of sentences in close juxtaposition. 'The value of re-vaccination has been illustrated ad nauseam." ' Only four well-authenticated cases were treated in which re-vaccination had been properly performed." The same article says the School Board work of twenty years is required before the '' mass of the people will be intelligent enough to use vaccination." If the School Boards do not \ turn out idiots, itis to be hoped such a craze as the Lancet's favourite, Vaccination, will be dead and buried among bad superstitions before that time. In the Correspondence, W. A. Green, M.R.C.P. London, complains bitterly of the difficulty of obtaiing ''pure and healthy" vaccine lymph. He says-'' Official vaccination tors meet with much opposition in their efforts to practice and extend vaccination and _ revaccination-a_ state of things generally admitted ;" and urges Government to direct its energy towards supplying lymph. 'Santiago is reported to be suffering severely from smallpox." Whether in Spain, Chil, or Cuba, is not stated. RW The '' Lancet"' versus the British College of Health. -Mr. Morison beware, and give an extra caution to the lions! The Lancet has doomed you for trial. Ask you Why? The Lancet answers: -'" It would be foolish to doubt that the British College of Health in the Euston-road renders a number of silly and misguided people disaffected towards the Vaccination Acts. And we submit respectfully to the authorities of the Privy Council, that some action should be taken to protect laws (as persons are protected) from unwarranted abuse." And has Are we not to abuse vaccination? If abuse can be checked by an Act of Parliament-at any rate, such sensible abuse as Anti-vaccinators employ -the observance has a chance of renewing its lease for a short period longer.-A. W. Sudden Death of a Child-A child, son of Michael Joyce, rag-dealer, of T'opping's-court, Moor- street, Blackburn, died suddenly on Sunday. The child, who has been healthy from birth, was vaccinated on the 23rd of last month by Dr. Stephenson, and on the 30th it was brought to the doctor to have the matter taken off. The wound was not, however, ready, and the matter was left on. On Saturday night, the child, after being fed with milk, was taken to bed, and was found dead in the bed on Sunday morning with its body discoloured and hands clenched. 174   . {September 16, 1872. Extraordinary Prosecution for Non-Vaccination at Dewsbury. A case of considerable interest was heard by Messrs. W. H. Thornton and J. 'l'. Rawsthorne, the magistrates on the Borough Bench at Dewsbury, on Thursday, and a large number of respectable people assembled to listen to the proceedings. The complainant in the case was Mr. John Kew, the vaccination inspector for the Dewsbury Union, who, acting under the instructions of the Board of Guardians, caused Wm. Fred Fox, the well-known auctioneer, and a member of the Board of Guar. dians, to be summoned for non-compliance with the Vaccination Act. The charge was that he, being the father of a child born on or about the 30th of September, 1871, had neglected or refused to have it vaccinated, according to the provisions of the Act of Parliament, within three months from the date of its birth. Mr, William Carr, clerk to the Guardians, represented that body; and Mr. J. Ibberson, of Dewsbury, appeared for the defendant, who pleaded "Not guilty." Mr. Carr, in opening the case, said there was considerable difficulty connected with it; in fact, there was some peculiarity in the case with which he would have to deal. Mr. Fox, the defendant, was a member of the Board of Guardians, who authorised all the proceedings against persons who refused to comply with the Vaccination Act ; but the difficulty was, he (Mr. Carr) could not make out where the child was born, so that he must make out the best case he possibly could. He thought, however, that if he made out the child was born in England it would be sufficient to ensure a conviction, for, according 'to the 16th section cf the Act of Parliament-" Every parent of a child born in England" ought to cause it to be vaccinated within three months from its birth. Other clauses provided for penalties in cases of refusal; and another made provision for the production by the district registrar of the certificate of birth. But in this case they could not do so, for he believed the child in question was not born in Dewsbury. They (the magistrates) would see the position he was in; and the only chance he (the speaker) thought he would have, would be to prove that the child was born in England. The defendant had thrown every possible obstruction in the way to(r) prevent the authorities getting to know where the child was born. Harriet Smith was the first witness examined by Mr. Carr, and said on being sworn-I am a midwife, residing at Savile Town. Mr. Carr: Has Mrs. Fox had a child ?-Yes. When ?-I can't tell. Is it six months since ?-I can't tell. Is it twelve months since ?-I can't tell. Where was it born,?-I fcan'ti tell. Were you present at its birth?-Yes. Then, where was it born ?-I can't tell: I was taken away in the dark, By what means ?--In a conveyance. What, in a cab ?-Yes.. How did you go ?-I left Savile Town, went to Dewsbury, to Mr. Fox's house, and was taken away by night. At what time of the night? -Il can't tell. 'Was it dark ?-I can't tell?" I°don't remember, 'Was it midsummer or winter ?-I can't tell. Was it daylight ?-I can't tell. I don't know whether it was midsummer or autumn. What time of the night was it?-I can't tell. Did you go to Mr. Fox's house by yourself?-Yes. Well, what time of the night was it ?-I can't tell. 'Now, tell me, was it dark ?-Yes. Was it midsummer ?--No; if it had been it wouldn't have been dark. What time of the night was it?-Now, come, tell me. I can't tell you: Inever saw a clock.from going to coming back. Where did you go to when you came to Dewsbury f-Why, to Mr. Fox's 'house. And you left with whom ?-Mrs. Fox. Had you seen Mrs. Fox before that night?-Yes; but not for several weeks, Where did you go to in the conveyance 7-I don't know. Which way did you go?-I don't know. You must know something about it P-No, I don't. How long were you on the road ?-I don't know. Have you no idea?-No. Were you a couple of hours ?--Perhaps. More thana couple of hours? About a couple of hours. When was Mrs. Fox confined ?-An hour after we got there. Got where ?--I don't know. Was the child a boy or a girl 2-A boy. How long did you stop with Mrs. Fox +-{ was ¢onveyed back the next night. In 'tle ditkiYes. When did you see Mrs, Fox again {-I did not see her until a fortnight or three weeks after the chi'd | was born. What was the name of the person with whom you lodged ?-I don't know. Are you sure? -Yes. I was told to ask no questions, and I did as I was toid. Have you seen the child lately ?-Yes. How long since ?-About three wecks. What is its name ?-I don't know. You don't :-No, I never heard its name. Not know what they call it ?-No. Do you know whether its birth has been registered or not?-I don't know. Do you know how many children Mrs. Fox has?-No. Are you sure ?-Yes. I don't know what family Mr. Fox has besides this boy. How long is it since this child was born ?-I don't know. Is it twelve months old ?-I. don't- know. Have you been to Mr. Fox's house lately ? -Yes. What about?-I have been on' business. Where was the child born ?-I don't know. Was it born in England ?-Yes. Cross-examined by Mr. 'Ibberson,:{Didj] Mr.6Kew come to see you at Savile Town ?-Yes, he did. How long since ?-I don't know.". What did he say when he came to see you?-I don't know. Don'% you know anything ?-Yes. He asked if I knew Mrs. Fox, and I said I did. He§also%asked me if I attended her, and I said I did. He also asked me if I knew where her childjwes born, and I said I could not tell him either where or when he was born. He asked me if I knew how long it was since it was born? and I said I did not. What did he say then ? -He said he did not care, as he knew when it was born, and all about it. Did you say anything to September 16, 1872.) him when he told you that >-Yes; I asked him why he came to me if he knew all about it. Did you tell him when the child was born? No; because I did not know. Mr. George Armitage (the magistrate's clerk) : Have you any questions to ask this witness, Mr. Carr ? -Mr. Carr: No, I think not. Elizabeth Wilson, washerwoman, of Cossham- street, Flatts, was the next witness called, but she did not appear, and Police-constable Foggo having sworn to' the service of the witness's summons, on Mrs. Wilson personally, on the 1d5th instant, the magistrates were about to issue a warrant for her apprehension, when it was suggested that she should be sent for. This having been agreed upon, Mrs. Fox, the wife of the defendant, was called, and the thagistrates were about to administer the oath, when Mr. Ibberson said: J submit that Mrs. Fox has no right to be examined in this case. The law of England says that a wife is not compelled to answer any questions which will criminate her husband, and on this ground I object to any questions being put to her. ; Mr. George Armitage: She cannot refuse to be sworn, but she can refuse to answer any questions put to her. Mr. Ibberson : Well, that amounts to the same thing. Mr. Carr: That is the case only with regard to criminal offences. I contend that this is not a criminal proceeding within the meaning of the statute. Mr. Ibberson: But I hold differently. We can be fined 20/- and costs, and if we do not pay, what _ then? Why, a month's imprisonment will be the result. Is not that a criminal proceeding ? Mr. Carr: I submit, your worships, that Mrs. Fox ought to be examined. Mr. Ibberson : I say she ought not. Will you let us go scot-free if we donot pay the 20/- and costs ? . Mr. Carr: J cannot say. Dr. W. H. Thornton (the presiding magistrate) : We rule that Mrs. Fox cannot be heard. Mr. Carr: Then I suppose you willtake the same course with Mr. Fox ?P Mr. Armitage : Oh, you cannot hear him. Elizabeth Wilson having now entered the court, explained that she had been coming as fast as she could; and, in answer to the Bench, said she was a washerwoman, and resided in Cossham-street, Flatts. Mr. Carr: Do you know Mrs. Fox ?-Yes. What is her name-her Christian name I mean ?-I cannot tell. You used to wash for Mrs, Fox, did you not? -Yes. How many children has she ?-Six, I think. Some boys and some girls?-Yes. What are their names ?-I don't know. Mr. Ibberson : I object to these questions, on the ground that Mr. Carr is trying to elicit information with a view to ulterior proceedings. Dr. W. H. Thornton, after consultation with the magistrates' clerk, said : We think these questions  . 175 Confine are not within the scope of this inquiry. yourself, Mr. Carr, to this particular 'case. Examination continued.-Mr. Carr: Is Mrs. Fox's youngest child a girl or a boy ?-Witness: I don't know. What age is it?-I don't, know. Is it ten months or a year?-No. {tell you I don't know. Have you seen the child lately 2-No, [havenot. I have not washed there lately; I have taken it home. Mr. Ibberson : Ihave nothing to ask this witness, your worships. Mr. George Armitage: Is that your ease, Mr. Carr '--Mr. Carr': Yes. Mr. Ibberson: 1 submit that my friend has not made out any case whatever. If you think he has, I will go on with my defence. Dr. Thornton, after a brief consultation with his colleague, said: We areof opinion that this case has not been proved.-Dewsdury Chronicle, June 22. We need offer no apology for publishing the above account, though the occurrence happened some time ago; for those of our readers who have not met with it before, will find much amusement in the perusal, and those who have, will thank us for introducing it here.-Ed, A.V. Salford.-Yesterday, at the Salford Police-court, before Mr. Charles H. Bazley and Mr, Alderman Leeming, a charge of failing to comply with an order to vaccinate his child was made against Philip Peebles, stonemason, VPhocbe-street.-Mdwin Waite, vaccination officer, said. the defendant had been summoned to that court on the loth ult.'for the same offence. On that occasion he said' he would refuse to vaccinate his child: and, in 'answer to a question put by the Bench, added that he was aware of the penalty of such a course. An order that he should comply wita the law was then made by the justices, and served upon the defendant on the 18th ult.; but on the 6th inst. the witness called at his house and found the child still unvaccinated.-Mr. Bazley said the defendant endangered his chiid's health and hfe by the course he was taking.-The defendant answered that he did not think so.-He was fined 20/-.---MManchester Examiner. Hadleigh.-Reuben Cutmore, Hadleigh, matting- weaver, was charged with having, on the 26th of _ July last, neglected to have his child taken to be inspected after vaccination, in ordcr that the result of the operation might be ascertained.-Mr, Henry Newman, the vaccination officer for the district in which the child resided, proved the offence. - Defendant pleaded ignorance of the law as to the inspection; and stated that he thought it was sufficient to have it vaccinated.-This being the first offence of the kind brought before the Bench, they adjourned the case; and if in the meantime defendant allowed the chi'd to be inspected, and paid the costs of the prcecaedings, the case to be withdrawn. I 76 The Anti-Vaccinator. [September 16, 1872. Vaccination Song. By E. 8. es Air- Excelsior." - The shades of gloom were falling fast, as through an English village passed a mother, who, 'mid snow and ice, bore infant with the strange device- Vaccination ! Her brow was sad; her eye beneath flashed like a lancet from its sheath, as like a silver clarion rung accents of pain from infant tongue, by Vaccination. In happy homes she saw the light of household fires gleam warm and bright ; above, death's spectral numbers shone ; and from her lips escaped a groan- "Oh, Vaccination !"' "Try the pus," the doctor said ; '¢dark lowers the smallpox overhead ; the curing poison goes deep and wide."' '' May God preserve him!" she replied, "not Vaccination." "¢Oh stay!" the mother said, 'and rest his weary head upon this breast." A tear stood in her bright blue eye, as she relented with a sigh to Compulsory Vaccination. Beware the infant's withered arm, beware the awful smallpox charm ! Sad was the mother's last good-night ; no voice replied, for fever's height of Vaccination. At break of day, as heavenward she pious thought of what occurred, uttered the oft-repeated prayer, his death-cry rent the startled air, J in agony of Vaccination. A sufferer by the legal hound, him buried in the bed she found ; still grasping in one hand of ice that withered arm with strange device- Vaccination ! There, in the twilight cold and grey, lifeless, not beautiful, he lay ; and from the sky serene and far, a curse fell like a falling star on State Vaccination ! Mr. C. 8. Read, M.P., and his Pet Nuisance. Sir,-In the report contained in No. 8 of the Anti-Vaceinator, of the debate on Mr. Pease's Bill, I noticed that although it is much fuller than that given in the daily papers of the 10th ult., it also leaves out some statements which they give, and which are sufficiently remarkable. I allude more particularly to the speech of Mr. C. 8. Read, which is reported in the Daily Telegraph as follows, viz.:- '"Mr. C. S. Read, on rising to move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months, admitted that he knew nothing about vaccination, but he did know something about compulsion ; andif they were to have compulsion at all, it should be a reality and not a sham. z * * . The Bill of the hon. member for Durham introduced an entirely new principle. It said that any man who threw down a sovereign on the magistrate's table might defy the law. 'hey might as well say that a man who committed a nuisance, might do it over and over again for one penalty. An unvaccinated child was a nuisance, and ought to be put down. He believed, however, that means ought to be taken for ensuring a better supply of pure lymph." In this report we have the remarkable fact recorded, that the House of Commons receives with approbation the speech of an hon. member who begins by saying that he knows nothing about the subject on which he attempts to speak ; also approves of the statement that every child is born a nuisance, and until improved by the introduction of the products of disease into its blood, is a dangerous animal which ought to be put down. 'To give birth, therefore, to an unvaccinated child is to commit a nuisance. Truly, the Creator has made a marvellous oversight in not causing children to be lorn vaceinated : but perhaps these gentlemen are disciples of "Topsy," and "'spect they grow'd!" I remember seeing it gravely recommended in several medical journals, that re-vaccination should be made compulsory, from which, I suppose, we may infer that it is very difficult for an adult to know whether he is not also a nuisance, which ought to be put down. You must remember, that in order to be " protected" you must actually have the vaccine disease, and be made more or less ill: so that many of the loudest pro-vaccinators are, according to this logic, nuisances which ought to be put down.-I have the honour to be, your obedient servant, Edwd. Haughton, M.D., &. London, Aug. 13, 1872. The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... 1s. 6d. Do. PORTE SEWER i 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. SR SITS Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . a ee Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.S.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. t= All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 12. New Series. OCGetoper 1, 1872. [Price One Penny. Contents, ee Page SINGbes ON of assin(r) HVENts siecc oe ass oases ves oes 177 When will the Last Vaccinator be Hanged? .... 179 iow toy Propagate Syphilisi.ii. 3.3... -ss08- ore. 179 smallPox Statistics in France for 1870-71 ...... 180 Wexcchinennane oivachny 35 ecco DOOCB OC Re OOO OOOD 181 The Metropolitan Asylums Board and _ their Smallpox SvaAIStiCde. "cles ois oveleaisisie "fale cw ncles 182 eho rem Abr CLE Rs, .1are) <.<\eloyere'" oleya¥e)a\e 1 ste\e\e!e/eioiere) oie 184 Wacemmatione a, (Good: WaiM 8 .5,<:0.5 i112 volaisinceis 186 MVE ETOKCrIM eat AIMOUGY, = .cisieleiesisiveie "isis ee'eie 187 Vaccination Prosecutions and the Isle of Wight ES OCU OE CUI: CLA AAS Paycve iare' s stoleleioicie s s\e's #vove/siers 189 Vaccination Prosecutions: Wigan, Ludlow .... 190 Vaccination and its Kvil Effects .............. 190 SCOMOMAU ROM ANICELOM: 9 5)4)¥o10 0) sicke's e/e)s|<jeleioieleleleleisie "is 191 GuinulabivesPewaties 4). < cciees o'eiieie.e cle' sa) si0(e 0 00 192 Notes on Passing Events. The suggestive article by Dr. Nittinger is taken from a journal published at Dresden, and called The Nature Doctor (''Die Natur-Arzt" ). It is edited by Gustay Wolbold, and comes out in monthly numbers. The publhcation advocates the treatment of the body, both in health and in illness, conformably with the dictates of nature. Dr. Nittinger contributed the article with a view of informing the Legislative body as to the real character of the so-called protective, vaccination ; and it confirms our theory that to be well vaccinated means a high death-rate from smallpox, and from all zymotic diseases; and that the very means we, in our ignorance, employ to prevent the smallpox, is the cause of the epidemic with which the nations ~~ are now afflicted. From that conclusion there is no escape. We do not mean to affirm that if there were no smallpox the patients suffering from that disease would have had no illness. Nothing so absurd. What we mean is, that considering the present sanitary condition of England, such a violent type of disease ought to have no place amongst us. Had the smallpox been left to itself---or, in other words, to sanitation-lke the plague, black-death, sweating sickness, and leprosy, it would have been a stranger to our shores in the present day, just as the last-mentioned diseases are. Begin to inoculate us with the virus not only of the smallpox, but of the other diseases above-named, and John Simon, standing upon the cliffs of Dover, may yet live to see a sight which Campbell describes, when Earth's cities had no sound nor tread, and ships were drifting with the dead to shores where all was dumb. Dr. Nittinger may well ask-'' When will the last Vaccinator be hanged ?" We ask the reader's calm and serious attention to the tale of ''A Sufferer." Are not such sufferings beyond endurance? It was in connection with results like those ''A Sufferer"' describes, that the people of the Midland Counties, a century ago, were led, in sheer self-defence, to threaten the faculty that if the practice of inoculation were not discontinued, they would reduce the stations to ashes. Talk of compulsory vaccination laws 178 and of quietly submitting to them! Why, the faculty must be as blind as a bat, or they would see that such consequences must eventually undermine the confidence in which" the body has been held, and that a form of distrust must arise, when not only the vaccinator, but the doctor himself, must suffer to a degree he little contemplates. Let the people be once convinced of the mischief of vaccination, and they will regard a call from the vaccinator as the settler in the wilds of America would receive a visit from a grizzly bear or the cobra. The claws of one, the fangs of the other, are things no more to be dreaded than the poison of the vaccine virus; for in that virus there often lurkg the poison-germ of a communicable disease a thousand times worse than the smallpox itself. Can any money payment which the wretched vaccinator may be compelled by law to give, be regarded as a compensation fcr such a calamity as that which has befallen the writer's family ? We answer-No. It is beyond the reach of compensation. Let his words sink deep into the consciences of all who read the particulars. "< Don't have your children poisoned ;" and might he not have added-'' Don't run the risk of being poisoned yourself"? ? 3eing desirous of obtaining the official statistics of the smallpox epidemic in France during the years 1870-71, we wrote to Dr. Bayard requesting him to obtain them for us, if possible. From his reply, it would seem that there is great difficulty in getting a sight of the returns. The authorities, whether in London, Berlin, or Paris, are animated by the same spirit-they dare not leave facts to speak for themselves. In the absence of vaccination, facts are speaking, and the weekly returns showing no smallpox mortality, point significantly to the conclusion that if there were no vaccination at all, and the taint of former years had worn itself out, the disease would disappear altogether. Has the power and influence of native oratory ceased from the land? Is there no prophet there to take up the parable, and, with the burning eloquence of another Hyacinthe, preach the great truths that epidemics are self-inflicted evils; that   Ld [October 1, 1872. ''cleanliness is next to Godliness; that there can be no disease where there is no infraction of the laws of nature; and that vaccination, in all its aspects, is worthy of the denunciation - which Fouché employed when speaking of the murder of the Duc d'Enghien in the time of the first Empire-''It is worse than a crime, it isa blunder"? ("' C'est bien pis qu'un crime, cest une faute."' ) 'The gathering clouds foretell the approaching storm. A notable '' scene" occurred the other day at Banbury; and it has a peremonitory voice which Mr. Stansfeld and other officials will do well to note. There is a time for argument and a time for action, and the latter is fast approaching. Peace at any price is a bad investment. We do not breathe slaughter, for we would not hurt a fly; but we should like to see a bonfire in Trafalgar-square, or any other square of a similar area, provided we could know that each piece of timber in the land bearing upon its surface '' Vaccination Station" were to be reduced to ashes. If some strange hand were to obliterate those words '' vaccination tion Station,' and substitute others more suitable and more truthful-as, for instance, ''Murder shop," '' Disease and Death gratuitously dispensed here," or the ike-we might, perhaps, be content without a conflagration. Coercion with respect to vaccination must come to an end speedily. The magistrate may inflict his fines, he may distrain and seize the goods of honest, thoughtful, and loyal citizens, but it 'is evident that he cannot turn the goods into cash. No-he will have to pack them off to London, addressed to the Medical Department of the Privy Council, Whitehall. Who knows? -stranger things have happened-the pus doctors there may have to turn auctioneers before their part is played out. Walsall.-A public meeting was held in the Temperance Hall Club-room, on Wednesday evening, Sept. 18, to take into consideration the best means of promoting the agitation in favour of the total repeal of the Vaccination Acts. It was determined to bring out and support men for the office of Guardian who were opposed to the obnoxious practice of vaccination, and who would not permit the vaccination officers to prosecute objectors, unless specially sanctioned by the board. October 1, 1872.} When wil! the Last Vaccinator be Hanged ? Examination into the Twenty-five Years' Contest about Vaccination in Wurtemberg. Bie Dr, Nittinger, of Stuttgart. The Wurtemberg medical paper of the 17th May, 1872, speaks as follows on the advantages and disadvantages of protection from smallpox by vaccination :- . "In Wurtemberg, during the year 1870, 5,208 persons suffered from smallpox, of whom 629, or more than 10 per cent., died. These numbers are not relatively much higher than those of the year before (1,488 seizures, with 141 deaths) ; they are little higher than those of the preceding fifteen years (1865, with 3,611 patients and 260 deaths, is not far behind | 1870); but they are undoubtedly higher than in any one year since the introduction of vaccination tito Wertemberg." The simplest understanding will at once perceive from this announcement of the medical authorities, that during the time when vaccination tion has been practised, we are worse off than | before; that every year from 80,000 to 100,00¢ inhabitants are vaccinated gratis, whereas 3,000 have been punished for illegally resisting vaccination. Have these latter who have paid their blood-money been seized by smallpox? No. We have to lament that since vaccination there has been no year free from smallpox; that smallpox hospitals have been built, and are continually open; that of 100 patients before vaccination only 5 to 7 died; but since, from 10 to 20 (even 30) die. . ' These unanswerable facts, which the General Vaccination Report for 1870 gives from official sources for consideration, become very pointed when one further reads about the infection with vaccination virus :- "A strong local action of the vaccination virus (reaction) has been remarked by many superior physictans," -such as swollen arms, swollen glands, &c. " Often there is very severe gencral action of the virus to be observed-violent fever, tumult of the nerves, difficulty of breathing, with palpitation of the heart, severe headache, pains in the limbs, pains in the back; also symptoms which bear a strong resemblance to a smallpox fever." These are all symptoms such as are produced by the most virulent poisons. The features of vaccination present to view the exact counterpart of poisoning. " After vaccination, came manifold pustules and abscesses on the forehead, shoulders, and back; an intense eruption which covered the whole body ; a red current which traversed one entire half of the  . 179 body; redness of the skin, convulsions; swooning, especially in men; catarrh of the windpipe and hooping-cough, which sometimes caused death; a severe breaking out of smallpox pustules. During the fortnight succeeding the operation, 34 to 38 died." No little village is too small, . an hospital must be in them all. The mind quails before such pictures of terrors ! 'An increase of vaccination has spread through the entire country. The number of vaccinated in Wurtemberg (without the residents) for 1870 was 2,376, against 2,115 in 1869, and against 1,628 in the year 1868." '""Conterning the re-vaccination of the confirmed in the district of the Jaxt, if was complained by eight distinguished physicians that more and more opposition is offered, and in some places it is no longer carried out. In Laupheim, the re-vaccination of the confirmed seems to have died out: it never found a footing in the districts of Oberndorf, Spaichingen, Leutkirch, Tettnang, Wangen. In five districts scarcely any medical man practised vaceination. Out of the 462 physicians in the country, only 229 vaccinated." When will the last Vaecinator be hanged ? Dr. Nittinger. How to Propagate Syphilis. 0 the Editor of the Anti-Vaceinator. Sir,-The other day a gentleman put into my hands a copy of the Hereford Times containing the letter signed 'A Sufferer.' The gentleman above referred to is the guardian of a child which is at present a miserable sufferer from a syphilitic affection. The child showed no outward signs of the disease until after vaccination. The woman having charge of the child did not blame that operation for it, as she knows too well the source of the complaint. That whici: concerned her most was, whether the lymph taken from the child would have the horrible effect of conveying the disease into any other family. I inquired if any children had been vaccinated from it. In reply she said-' I cannot tell, but matter was taken from it by the public vaccinator ; whether he made any use of it I cannot say." The poor woman seemed much distressed at the possibility of any child being affected in such a dreadful manner as the one she had under her care. She also said, what I can confirm-' It was impossible for the doctor to know that the child was diseased at the time it was operated on." The skin was then quite clear, and continued so for about three weeks after the operation, when the characteristic syphilitic eruption made its appearance. It is now in a fearful condition, and it would be charitable to hope that death may put an end to what must be hence: 180   {October 1, 1872. ee ee ee see forth a weary and painful existence. I hope the lymph taken from this child was never used; if it was, who can tell where the mischief may stop, or how many clean and healthy infants may be fouled before the horrid poison is detected? The thought of this caused the poor woman intense grief, and in this respect she contrasted very favourably with a case [ remember occurring some eight years ago, when, like most of my medical brethren, I believed in vaccination. About the period above-mentioned, I attended a person in her confinement whom I found to be suffering from syphilis; the child, however, was apparently healthy. Some time afterwards I was requested to vaccinate it. Of course I refused, and gave strict injunctions that it should not be vaccinated. On calling a short time after, to my great astonishment I found the operation had been performed. The mother said- As you would not do it, I sent it to the public vaccinator." I asked-" Are you going to send it to him for inspection and to have the lymph removed?" Her reply was " Yes." JI then gave her a sound "rating," and told her that if she did, I should go to the doctor and tell him the reason why the lymph should not be used. This had the desired effect, so no stock was obtained from that source: but you will perceive it was almost by a mere accident that this was prevented. 'This child died about three months after, having previously shown all the characteristic symptoms of syphilis. The consideration of such cases as those above narrated-(even if vaccination were a protection against smallpox, which it is not)-ought in itself to be a sufficient reason for demanding the immediate and total repeal of the Vaccination Laws. It is difficult, however, to get people to take the trouble, in these times, to think for themselves, so many are governed by what appears in their favourite newspapers, never recollecting that in most instances the editor simply writes not what he has ascertained to be true, but just what he is best paid for doing. Another thing is-it is not fashionable to be an Anti-vaccinator: and so a very large class are afraid to say what they think, lest they should be considered vulgar. There was never a cause which had more justice on its side than ours, and therefore I have no fear that in the end we shall triumph over ignorance, prejudice, and the slavery of fashion.-I remain, yours truly, Durham. John Pr att, surgeon. Rochdale.-A public lecture was delivered at the Featherstall Sunday School-room (which was kindly lent for the occasion), on Tuesday, the 17th September, by Dr. Brown, of Rochdale, on the Origin, Progress, Cost, and Fallacies of Vaccination. The lecture was well attended, and the audience expressed their satisfaction by requesting Mr. Brown to give a second lecture on the same subject, which he consented to do on the 27th September. Discussion was invited, but not accepted, although pro-vaccinators were present. smallPox Statistics in France, for 1870 and 1871. Lo the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Villeneuve-St. Georges, Seine-et-Oise, September 2, 1872. Sir,-Your very interesting letter arrived in due course, and on the following day two numbers of the Anti-Vaccinator. I thank you much for both, and congratulate you on the accuracy with which you have rendered my ideas. I have written to the Minister to ask for some of the documents that you wish for; but I doubt much whether he will reply to me. The deaths from smallpox in 1870-71 will not be officially announced for some time; the Academy, in whose hands the statistics are, does not wish to publish them until much later, when the matter will have lost some of its importance. Then it will give us the figures prepared and toned down. The vaccination authorities of London and Paris, if they have not much learning, have plenty of cunning. Send me the Anti-Vaccinator regularly; in exchange I will send you all I can find, but I promise 'little on account of my health, and the scarcity of matter on the subject; but we shall see.-Accept, &e. A. Bayard, Dr Memoranda on the Displacement of Mortality in France. By A. Bayard. The displacement of mortality is one of the gravest of social problems. It is true that Vaccination spares infancy, but this saving is lost again upon more mature age, especially from 18 to 38 years. At the age of 41 no trace remains. It is thus the most valuable ages which pay by death for the immunity of childhood: and the reason may be found in this axiom-Hvery artificial action is followed by a corresponding natural reaction. And those who maintain that the loss is equal, reason like a child who says-''I have two coins in my purse," not discerning that one is worth twenty times as much as the other. Some time after the introduction of Jennerism the population seemed to increase. In France, it was said that 30 years sufficed to double the population, but now 180 years is required for that purpose, and shortly it will be found that it has ceased to increase, which is true, and it is diminishing most rapidly in October 1, 1872.] those districts where vaccination is most studiously practised, such as Haute Marne, Coté V@Or, &e. A great priest of divinity, Bousquet, worthy of St. Simon, arcades acuto, once made this naive avowal:-'' Long before vaccination, the population increased; it is certain that vaccination preserves the tenth part of it; how comes it that this tenth part no longer multiphes itself?' We can show what becomes of the tenth part. Bousquet made a peremptory reply, in full Academy. He treated M. Carnot as a heretic, and accused Bayard of abetting the heresy. These are facts which may be found in the Blue-book. Let us leave these unfortunates-I was about to say, these wretches-lying at the foot of the altar of the golden calf, eternally changing their opinion as new circumstances require. The same M. Carnot proved that the increase in the English population was less than it had been-was no longer what it was in former times. Well, with the statistical documents that we ought to possess, and by which we could compare the increase by periods of ten years, beginning at 1790, we might then be able to form a better judgment as to the effects of vaccination. Asit is we can only believe and wait. Adieu! Vaccination Tyranny. (From Brett's St. Leonards and Hastings Gazette, Aug. 29, 1872.) Dear Sir,-Under the tyrannical Vaccination Act of 1867-71, by which guardians of the poor are oppressors of the poor, and justices outrage justice, Samuel Carey, of All Saints-street, Hastings, was on Thursday last sentenced to fourteen days' imprisonment for conscientiously refusing to have his child, fifteen months old, vaccinated, having previously lost a child through vaccination. I myself was on the same day fined 10s. and 13s. 10d. costs, for resisting the abominable law by which the simplest laws of nature are mercilessly outraged. The Acts of 1867 and 1871 empower tho Guardians of the poor to appoint a vaccination officer, whose duty it is to report those who withstand these diabolical laws. They also empower the magistrates to inflict a penalty not exceeding 20s.; or, in default, fourteen days' imprisonment. There is a great diversity of opinion on the subject of vaccination. Many of our leading medical men condemn it altogether ; and are those of us who believe it to be wrong to do wrong simply. because others tell us that wrong is right? The Vaccination laws are totally different from all others. we submit to, simply because they do not materially  . There are many objectionable laws which - TSE affect us; whereas the Vaccination Acts are calculated to injure the health and lives of the people. Then another question arises :-What has vaccination done for the country? Has it lessened the number of cases of smallpox? Has it proved itself to be an infallible preventive of that disease? Has it never propagated other diseases? Is the mortality from smallpox less since the Vaccination Acts came into operation? Had those who passed the Acts ever studied the subject? and if so, did they not find it was often injurious, although they carefully concealed the fact ? I deny the usefulness of vaccination, and I affirm that disease in some of its most loathsome forms is transmitted by this beastly agency. It is a fact that cannot be denied, that there are many deaths from vaccination, that much needless suffering, and in some instances lifelong injury, are the result, Even those who uphold the practice are obliged to admit that there is such a thing as spurious vaccination caused by impure lymph. Must not all lymph be impure? Is it not in itself the very essence of impurity? and can we put this impurity (foetid matter) into the blood of a healthy child and expect a good result? Impossible! It is against the laws of God and nature. How often do we see children who were previously healthy, become after vaccination tion sickly and weak! The public feeling is strong against this system of blood-poisoning, and I venture to say that two-thirds of the population of this country condemn it, although the arbitary provisions of the iniquitous Acts compel many parents to suffer their little ones to undergo a vile and heathenish operation. The question is often asked-How can we alter this state of things? I answer-By a constant and firm resistance to the Act. How were the streets of Jerusalem kept clean? By each one sweeping the part before his own door: and so it must be in the case of vaccination-each one must refuse to have his children vaccinated, and also petition the Houses of Parliament for the repeal of the Compulsory clauses of the Acts. Much has been done; many have suffered severely for their adherence to truth and purity; and much must yet be done before the desired object is attained. Those who institute proceedings against conscientious citizens-viz., the guardians of the poor-are in nine cases out of ten in utter darkness on the subject. They have not studied it, and do not care to do so. They are content to leave it in the hands of medical gentlemen. Now as there are such differences of opinion in the medical profession, soine saying ' Vaccinate!'' and others, "' Cease Vaccination!" what is the duty of the guardians ?-to oppress the poor? Certainly not, but to make searching and unprejudiced inquiry to ascertain if these things are so. If such an inquiry were made simply with the desire to find out the truth, the result must be an utter condemnation of the obnoxious Acts, which are at variance with the teaching of God and the laws of health. Many years since it was the custom to inoculate with smallpox. The practice is now penal; and it can scarcely be doubted that ere long vaccination will 182   [October 1, 1872. share the same fate. Such laws as the Vaccination Acts of 1867-70 are unworthy of a Christian land, and befit only uncivilised and heathen nations. Prior to these Acts being enforced the mortality from smallpox was 2,500, whereas last year it amounted to over 22,000. Facts are stubborn things and they have an awkward knack of coming where they are not wanted. It is often the custom of those who uphold these tyrannical laws to ignore facts. They prefer to sacrifice truth and justice, rather than confess their error. But truth will out in this age of advancement, and there are many who do not believe everything they are told, preferring to examine things for themselves. JI would recommend a study of this subject to all who desire to know the truth of the matter. It is a subject that commends itself to parents who desire the health and wellbeing of their children, and it is withal a deeply interesting and profitable study. Trusting I have not trespassed too much on your valuable time and space,-I am, dear Sir, yours truly, Hastings, Aug. 23. John Turner. The Metropolitan Asylums Board and their smallPox Statistics. The Board has recently issued a report, evidently with a double object-to exhibit the failure of vaccination, and to extol the blessings of re-vaccination. The report has evoked a very able reply from Mr. Baker, the hon. sec. of the Society for Suppressing Compulsory Vaccination. We reprint it from the pages of the Cosmopolitan. South Sea House, Threadneedle-street, July 27, 1872. Sir,-The report presented to you by the medical officer of the Stockwell Hospital has this day reached me. From this report I gather that of 2,288 smallpox patients admitted into that hospital 434 died, or 19 per cent. as near as may be, as compared with a mortality rate varying from 6 to 18 per cent. in the last century, according to the authorities, From the general report of the Asylums Board it appears that 14,800 smallpox cases have been received into their three metropolitan hospitals, and that the aggregate rate of mortality has been about the same as at Stockwell and Hampstead. If this were the total for London it would be under 1 per 1,000 of population. We know, however, from the Registrar-General, that the smallpox death-rate in London reached 2°4 per 1,000. Persons ignorant of statistics are easily deluded by the statement of figures in gross, unless the proportions are given. Thus writers in the newspapers, treating the above as a "raging" epidemic, curiously enough attempt to account for it by saying that during the now nineteen years of compulsory vaccination, the practice had been usually, if not altogether, neglected! Your reporters more correctly state that probably the vaccinated are nineteen times more numerous than the unvaccinated, although these officers fail to point out as a reason why the death-rate among the unvaccinated is higher than among the vaccinated, the truism, well known ~ to every tyro, that weakly infants who cannot be subjected to the risk of vaccination, if they survive, ; are more likely to succumb to an epidemic than those who, proving strong enough to resist one poison, may also better resist another. The medical authorities of the Privy Council, or Local Government Board, proved before the Commons' committee of last year that Scotland and Ireland were the countries where vaccination was now the best carried out; also that in Prussia vaccination had very long been compulsory. The Scotch and Irish Registrars-General corroborate this evidence. The first-named officer shows that 97:77 per cent. of the births in Scotland are vaccinated, which, after adding those dying previous to | vaccination, would nearly account for the entire births. Nevertheless, Dundee has suffered during the last year more than any other town in Great Britain from the epidemic, the smallpox death-rate amounting to 53 per 1,000 in that town, and out of the total smallpox deaths there during the five months from January to May last, inclusive, 374 per cent. were ay ' ' 3 children under five, the Compulsory Vaccination Act having been in operation eight years! In Dublin the smallpox rate of mortality during the last six months has been 7°6 per 1000-c., three times as great as in London last year. In Berlin, it was eight times as great asin London during the last quarter of 1871. Your report further states that out of all these 14,800 patients, '' only four well-authenticated cases were treated in which re-vaccination had been properly performed.'' There are no means of ascertaining whether that is put forward as proving that, as vaccination will not protect from smallpox, so neither will re-vaccination (the only thing it does prove); or whether, by giving the small number "four," prefixed by the word 'only,' immediately after the large number "14,800," the ignorant may possibly be led to infer that the one number bears some kind of relation to the other. If we could tell whether the four re-vaccinated cases could be produced out of 400, 4,000, 40,000, 400,000, or 4,000,000, subjected to that process, some calculation might be based on its probable effect. It might turn out, however, that each of these four well-authenticated cases in which revaccination had been "' properly performed," was the only one in his or her family re-vaccinated, and also the only one among them attacked by smallpox. Your report, at least, tells us absolutely nothing in reference to these cases. There is only the vague generality that ''not a single case where undoubted successful re-vaccination had been performed presented itself for admission." Amidst this double dilution not a word is said about the effect of unsuccessful revaccination. Numbers have seen terrible cases of this kind, and heard of many more. How many of the 658 members of the House of Commons October 1, 1872.]  . 183 were re-vaccinated ? The public has heard of three- Sir R. Collier, since removed to the bench-(whether that was one of the results of the operation we know not); the late Judge-Advocate, whose life, if not jeopardized, was certainly not saved by the process ; and Mr. Dodds, of whom, except that he then had a very bad arm, I have not heard since. There may have been, and doubtless were, some others ; but how would the numbers tell on a division ? Nevertheless, I do not recollect hearing of one hon. member dying from smallpox. It is much to be doubted whether 3,250 persons-or 1 per 1,000 of the population- Have been re-vaccinated in London. It does not strike me as very surprising that strong healthy women might resist vaccine poison without apparent injury. It may be presumed that weakly subjects would not apply for hospital employment; and we have no means of knowing whether all candidates were employed, or all such submitted to the operation, or how many may have been injured by it. The assertion so frequently repeated in the papers last year, and reiterated now, that the smallpox hospital nurses had been re-vaccinated, and therefore had escaped, was disposed of by Mr. Marson in his evidence, who stated that most, if not all, of such nurses had been previous patients in the hospital-.e., had recently had smallpox. Not being myself a thorough-going contagionist, I can easily understand that strong persons in a well- ventilated smallpox hospital would be far less liable to succumb ('with but few exceptions') to the epidemic influence, than had the same persons remained in the slums of London, where fever of all kinds finds its necessary n7dus. Newspaper writers have asserted that the alleged communication of other diseases by vaccination broke down before the committee. You will recollect that after ten witnesses had been examined, all further evidence adverse to vaccination was shut out. The girl with the re-vaccinated and paralysed arm was refused a hearing; nor was M. Ricord sent for. I, who was present throughout the inquiry, certainly heard Mr. Simon, in reply to some proved cases, asseverate "they are lies; and any subordinate of the "' Medical Department," writing to a newspaper, would, no doubt, deem his weighty contradiction sufficient to break down all opponents; but those who saw, as well as heard, his own evidence given on the Hutchinson and ' Octavia" cases, may have formed a different opinion. One of his subordinates certainly on that occasion led the committee to believe that the 4th of April was after the 2lst, but few, nevertheless, will deem such to have been the case. I beg further to direct attention to the fact that all these medical reports made in reference to the results of a purely physiological experiment-virz., whether the administration of disease of some or any kind can prevent or modify disease of the same or some other kind--appear to be based on the fallacious assumption that the epidemic (miscalled ''contagion'') must almost necessarily attack every person not protected by a species of conjuring, the result of which - cannot possibly be foreseen; whilst they equally ignore the really trite truism that healthy habits- e.g., sound food and drink, proper ventilation and cleanliness-can alone promote health, as they alone can "stamp out," as the vulgar phrase goes, such epidemics as sweating sickness, plague, jail fever, and smallpox. Thus, the model dwellings situate in the " fever nests'' of London had a smallpox mortality of 1 per 1,000 only, though their population is four times more dense, in proportion to the area they occupy, than that of the "fever nests" themselves. When these health-giving habits are violated, it would, indeed, appear that an exanthematous disease like smallpox provides the best safeguard-purifying the blood by bringing the poison to the surface. And thus we find that although syphilis and other inoculable diseases are on the increase with increasing vaccination-(and- in making our calculation the numerous deaths resulting directly from vaccination, could they be furnished, should be added to the smallpox deaths among the vaccinated) ; although, also, the death-rate among those in whom the cowpox becomes confluent, leaving one mark, is much higher than among those less injured by the poison; in spite of all this accumulated lowering of constitutional strength (exhibited by infantile diarrhcea and whooping-cough mortality), the deaths in the metropolis during the last six months-7.e., during and following the worst smallpox epidemic of the century- were 4,582 below the average of the last ten years. When, therefore, disinterested persons, disposed to open their eyes and ears to truth, fairly, candidly, and diligently examine into the genuine philosophy and true statistics of vaccination health and disexuse, they may arrive at the conclusion, that as, on the one hand, the practice by no means affords any justification for doing evil that good may come, so, on the other, it can only be ignorance, or dishonest colour- able pretence, which ever seeks to alarm the public mind into a smallpox panic.-I have, &c. (Signed) 'T. Baker. To the Chairman, Metropolitan Asylums Board. A Surgeon on Drinking. - A Birmingham surgeon, writing on the "tippling'"' system, says:- It is a great mistake to suppose that excess in drinking only consists in getting drunk: anything which interferes with the perfect health and utmost usefulness of mind and body, is excess. I think there can be no doubt that the vast multiplication of wine licences to pastry-cooks and confectioners has done a great deal of harm. The tart and bun are much too often the excuse for the glass, I am not a teetotaller; I believe a small amount of alcholic stimulant uscful, but if must be diluted, and only taken at meal-times. I believe, however, that young people, when in health, never need it. { confess to a fear that members of my -profession do no little harm by inconsiderately ordering stimulants. We want more physical exercise, better-ventilated private and public rooms, earlier hours, and a great deal less smoking and drinking, 184 a oe   [October 1, 1872. The Antt-Wacetwator. ee ee October 1st, 1872. The letter from our able correspondent, Mr. John Pratt, surgeon, Durham, is a valuable contribution, as showing, on the clearest evidence, how syphilis may be-and, in our opinion, often is-communicated by vaccination. In two important points it is corroborative of the cases brought before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, in April, 1871, by Dr. Joseph Hutchinson, surgeon to the Metropolitan Free Hospital, London, viz.: - Pirstly, That a child born of syphilitic parents may exhibit no signs of the disease for months after its birth; and secondly, That the public vaccinator may operate on the child, and use lymph taken from it, without being able to detect the presence of the syphilitic poison, and without being blameable for the consequences, so far as any personal neglect is concerned. It is only natural to hope that the lymph taken from the child in question was not used by the public vaccinator. But he took the lymph for use, and there can be no reasonable doubt that the virus, with its syphilitic taint, has done its fatal work long before this; and the parents of those poor inoculated children may be in total ignorance of the irreparable mischief inflicted on their helpless and innocent children. When the syphilitic appearances may be detected, the parents will have no notion of tracing the disorder up to its source; and their future happiness may be jeopardized by each one believing the other to be chargeable with the mishap. When truth is revealed to us, the revelation is seldom confined to one truth; and so, in the exposition of the transference of disease, it is now acknowledged that it does not absolutely depend upon the presence of blood corpuscles, such as can be detected either with or without the microscope; for at the debate of the Royal Medical Chirurgical Society above referred to, it was urged, that as the matter itself is deposited by the blood, therefore, if the blood is thus tainted, the secretion will be tainted likewise, and there is no test to determine its presence. Another said that the epidermic scales removed by the lancet in making the incisions in the arm might adhere to the lancet, and when the operator punctured the vesicle on the arm of a child, in order to take matter with which to vaccinate another child, syphilis might be conveyed thereby, without the slightest chance of discovering the misadventure. <A third said it was of frequent occurrence that, having exhausted a vesicle-other children being in readiness for the operation- the vaccinator waited till the vesicle was refilled; and as the second supply consisted of exudation, such virus might be capable of transmitting disease. And another suggested the idea, that in children who were syphilitic the base of the vesicle might be ''a little vascular" -that is, the veins or arteries might be a little distended, and more liable to be punctured, and, consequently, blood corpuscles might become mixed with the virus, and the operator neither know it nor be-blameable for such a result. And before the curtain fell on the last act of this drama, the arch-vaccinator himself, Dr. Simon, essayed to speak, and in the true martyr-spirit answered :-'' The syphilitic material, in all probability, existed in particles contained in the blood. The corpuscles of the blood, it was now well known, passed out of the vessels; and they might thus become important agents in the conveyance of such particles. If this were the case, inflammatory effusions would be a source of danger, and the vaccinator should be very chary of drawing lymph from a vesicle after the formation of an areola. 'The formation of the areola indicated a process accompanied by a migration of white corpuscles ; and if these conveyed particles of syphilitic contagion, then these particles would be contained in the fluid which was used." And what then? Why, syphilis would be spread in every direction, and hundreds of human beings /would be cursed for life with this terrible disorder. ~ oe 1, 1872. }  . 185 Now, after all these dangers so dramatically pourtrayed,.and these cautions and pitfalls, from which an angel could szarcely escape, much more a man who is paid for what he does at so much a hundred, can we wonder that the death-rate should be so excessive, and that half tae children born should perish before they shal] so forth for the total repeal of Acts which reachtheir tenth year? It must not be forgotta that what is said of this one disease may be a applicable to twenty o-in' fact: + | Se ee ee at, . | thks subject, when we reflect upon the daily mos! diseases; and it has really come to this- tha/it is next to impossible to perform vaccination tior without transmitting the taint of disease, if 1ot an active and special disease condition. | As infinite as Gop Himself, thi qualities of matter, and suceptibilities of our natures. All these risks are incurred, be it remembered, in order to protect us from one disease- stall-pox; and no provirion is made of a similar kind to protect us from the ravages of al the other fatal disorders. In the Report of th Select Committee on the Vaccination Acts (p3), it is quoted from the evidence of Dr. Gil, that '' vaccination is as protective against smll-pox as smallpox itself.' On the same pniciple, why not vaccinate us for Sypris, scifula, scabies, scarlatina, ty phus, &e.? and tha Dr. Gull can say with equal truth-'" Vac- cit-syphilis is as protective against syphilis as synilis itself'; and so on through the Miss Vhat a wretched, wicked, and senseless prposition! 'Stamp out the smallpox!" Ye-vaccinate us for each distinct zymotic diease, and Dr. Simon's prophecy with regard tothe smallpox would soon be fulfilled ; for if this folly were multiplied as indicated, not jonly smallpox, but all zymotic diseases, would \(in a single generation) be effectually stamped out. But how? By stamping out the race itself / This is the way, practically, that we Es doing it now; and it is only necessary to "xtend the benefit of the principle of vaccination one or two other diseases, and then not half ly, but all the children that are born to us, all perish before their tenth year! Dr. so infinite are | infinite as the | s ocak : | ever, to find that the agitation is growing and Simon, and those who think and act with him, may take the suggestion, if they please. It will not be our fault if, during the coming winter, the public feeling shall not be roused to such an extent that, from one end of England to the other, a simultaneous demand are a reproach to our name and nation. We have scarcely patience to write upon and hourly mischief that is inflicted upon the | community by those who ought to know better: and yet, it is to us not only a theme, but an inspiration. We abhor the practice, and all its belongings. It is no small gratification, how- spreading in every direction, and particularly amongst those who are the greatest sufferers- the poor. Disaffection to the law which enforces the observance is manifested in almost every district; and the day is not far distant when neither Minister, Magistrate, nor Guardian, will dare to carry out the provisions of the vaccination tion Acts. Laws are for the protection of the people-not for their persecution. When the law is used to enforce a rite-a mere medical dogma, upon which every man ought to be at liberty to exercise his own discretion as to whether he will have the operation performed upon his children or not, and the only benefit of which is the trade value of the monopoly thus created-the obligation to resist the law becomes not only a necessity, but a duty. Under such circumstances, he is greater who suffers fines and imprisonments, than he who doubts the wisdom of the practice and submits -aye, even if that submission be under protest. The hatred of vaccination is engrailed upon the very hearts and consciences of the poor, and we shall fan it to a blaze, until a fire is kindled that shall purge the land from a rite so brutal, and a practice so unnatural and unclean. It was Horace Walpole who once said :-'' In all science error precedes the truth; and it is better that it should go first than last." 186 The Managers of the Metropolitan Asylum District, no doubt fearful of the spread of Anti-vaccination views, were determined to send their report into presumably infected quarters, so they have transmitted the documents to boards and Corporations other than the boards of Guardians. The Bedford Local Board were surprised on receiving the report; but after a little consideration they quietly settled down, when they perceived that | | him. it did not immediately apply to them, and they were content to regard it as so much information, '"'to be sure." 'That question of Mr. "Then, they make out that vaccination is a preventive of smallpox?" 'Yes,' answered the Clerk, pleased to find that vaccination was not only a good thing, but an extraordinary good thing ! We should be somewhat surprised to learn that the report could be reasonably expected to prove anything else than that vaccination was a good thing, when out of the seven members of the Committee who signed the report to the | Managers, two of them are M.Ds., and one of | them (Dr. Brewer) is a pro-vaccinator of the | first water! That report will exercise a most pernicious influence upon gentlemen who, like the members of the Bedford Local Board, take so little interest in the vaccination question. There is no doubt but the country has been flooded with these reports. We have received them from every district in England. No matter-we have but to work and to toil a little longer. '' Magia est veritas, et preevalebit." Mr. Blake, Guardian of the Isle of Wight | Board, deserves our thanks for the manly position which he has taken with regard to repeated prosecutions. Mr. Blake has a conscience, and he respects that conscience when 'it is in the possession of another man. Like Mr. Beall and Mr. Bacon, Guardians of the Sheffield Union' (see report in No. 10 A. V.), he argues that it is best to temper justice with mercy, and particularly when the real justice of the thing is on the side of the persecuted : and so we think. The Local Government Board would have to send down mandamus after mandamus before we should surrender at discretion. It appears Mr.   [October 1, 1972. Mortimer had introduced a motion to prosecute, to which Mr. Blake objected; and in his reply, Mr. Mortimer says-''I should like to know from any opponent of vaccination when will be the right time to bring such a proposition _ forward." We answer, '' Never /" To prosecute aman for objecting to poison his own chill with | the filth of vaccination is an insane propostion ; and if anybody ought to be sent to gao, it is Mr. Mortimer himself and those who think with We withdraw the word ''think," and ask leave to substitute the word ''act." After this expression of our opinion, perhaps Mr- Mortimer will be a better and a wiser nan. The value of vaccination, Mr. Mortimer, is ike that of many other materials-''just wha; it will bring." It brings gold into the till of the vaccinator, but it brings disease and death ato the homes of the people. The death-rate folloys the vaccination-rate and the pay-rate. Thnk of that, ye Theobalds and Mortimers! Vaccination a Good Thing. Bedford Local Board and the Report of 1¢ Metropolitan Asylum Board. The monthly meeting of the members of he Local Board was held at Bedford on the Ith August. We take the following report Dm the Leigh Times of August 17 :- The Clerk said he had received a letter fronthe Clerk of the Metropolitan Asylum District, wh a report of the Committee of the Managers ging statistics as to the cases of smallpox treated inieir several hospitals during the smallpox epidem of 1871-72. He then read the following letter :- The Metropolitan Asylum Distric 37, Norfolk-street, W.C., 10th Aug. 12. Dear Sir,- The managers of the Metropotan Asylum District believing that the report showing teir experience obtained in their hospitals during the reent epidemic of smallpox will be of interest to your Boand, have directed me to forward you the enclosed Sat -I am, dear sir, yours faithfully, W. FE. Jibb, Clerk. The Clerk, after reading the above letter, said tha' notwithstanding the correspondence which har appeared in the. Leigh Times, the report showed tha vaccination was an extraordinary good thing. It we based upon the reports of cases that had come und: the notice of the managers of the Metropolité Asylum District. Mr. Moscrop: Then they make out that vaccir tion is a preventive of smallpox? The Clerk: Yes. October 1, 1872.]  . 187 The Chairman: Does it belong to our province ? Mr. Moscrop: No. If vaccination is a geod thing, I think it is the duty of. the Guardians to see that it is carried out. It does not immediately apply to us; but it is information, to be sure. The Clerk said he had no doubt the Guardians would have received a similar report. Mr. Pickering at Banbury. " Vital Statistics connected with smallPox and Vaccination; and the folly and Sin of Vaceination Exposed.' On Thursday evening, Mr. Jno. Pickering, F.S.8., F.R.G.8., of Leeds, delivered a lecture in the Town Hall, on " Vital Statistics connected with smallpox and Vaccination: the Folly and Sin of Vaccination Exposed." The chair was taken by Charles Gillett, Esq., who said they had met that evening to hear a lecture from their friend Mr. Pickering, of Leeds. platform would show them some of his labour in respect to statistics.-(A number of mortality tables were displaved on the platform.)-The statistics which had been published in favour of vaccination had been found to be erroneous, and the leading journals had often been found writing in favour of vaccination, and against those who had inquired more into it, and felt some doubt on the matter. He himself was at one time in doubt whether vaccination was right or not, and from examination and the best information he could gct on the question, he was enabled to come to the conclusion that if was decidedly wrong to perform the operation any more on his children, and the younger ones remained, contrary to the law, unvaccinated. Of course, it was only by getting public opinion to bear upon the subject that the compulsory laws relating to vaccination would be altered; and he trusted that the matter would be kept before the public till this was accomplished. Mr. Pickering (who was received with loud. applause) said the subject they had met to discuss was one of comparatively modern date, but of ever- increasing and growing interest. It was said to be a question for medical men, and medical men only; but he and others thought otherwise, and it was only the other day that Dr. Carpenter, in his speech before the members of the Bnitish Association at Brighton, urged that the common sense of the people must now be admitted in discussing scientific quesiiuus. Mr. Pickering then proceeded to trace the history of epidemics The figures they saw on the. from that first one which is mentioned in the pages of sacred history, when the spotted leprosy afflicted the Israelites in their journeyings through the wilderness. This was the first historical reference with regard to the rise and spread of a zymotic disease. He then traced the history of smallpox from the seventh up to the eleventh century, as it asserted its sway in Arabia, and sketched its appearance and progress through various European countries. The lecturer then gave a brief historical account of the epidemics of the Middle Ages-the black death, the sweating sickness, the plague, and the smallpox, also of the opinions of historians as to their origin. He held the opinion of a writer in the Philosophical Transactions, who in speaking of the plagues of London. said that the habits of the people were so dirty, there was no doubt the plagues were bred amongst themselves. It had been even so amongst the people of all countries, and in all eras of history. Pestilences and plagues had been too long regarded as the ministers and avengers of God, whereas they were of man's creation. Plagues were Nature's protest against uncleanliness, and against the general neglect of wholesome sanitary laws. Ignorance and superstition had made men view the pestilence as a thing of superhuman origin, and a punishment for national sins; but the plagues of our day, like those of centuries past, owed their existence to the unhealthy circumstances in which people lived. A physician, at a recent meeting in connection with a medical association, stated his belief that all zymotie diseases had one and the same origin. Miss Nightingale, in her " Notes on Nursing' had made a statement that she had seen, in the Scutari Hospitals, several different forms of disease spring up and grow into each other accordingly as the wards were overcrowded and became more densely packed with patients-first, continued fever, then typhoid, then typhus, and soon. These facts led to the conclusion that if we must prevent epidemics, each man must do his share, and begin in his own house, by his own fireside. The best prophylactic was cleanliness: the prophylactic of Jenner was a delusion and an imposture. He afterwards gave an account of the rise of the practices of inoculation and vaccination. Inoculation was first introduced into this country by Lady Wortley Montague, and after it had been used by the great and mighty in the land, the faculty took it up. The history of inoculation clearly showed this fact-that by its adoption smallpox had increased a hundredfold. It was marvellous how mnay millions were carried to the grave before the error was discovered. And yet, the people believed in it from the first. It only required Lady Montague to bring it over here, and ambassadors and statesmen to inoculate their sons and daughters, and the people adopted it. It was seventy-two years since the rite received its death-blow. About one hundred years ago, the people in the Midland counties began to detect the imposture of inoculation, and threatened the medical faculty that unless they gave up inoculation they would pull down the inoculation stations brick by 188 brick. But after that it took 30 years to extinguish it. Then came vaccination. Inoculation consisted in transferring smallpox matter direct from a patient, to the blood of healthy children and adults. Vaccination only differed in this-that the smallpox matter was passed from the human subject firstly through a cow, and then into the arms of previously healthy children, a rite which he held to be as barbarous as it was cruel. The base of the virus which was used in connection with both operations was the same; it was the smallpox virus, and thus it was that of all the plagues of the Middle Ages, the smal]J-pox was the only one left, the others having disappeared contemporancously with the spread of sanitation. 'The smallpox would disappear as soon as we gave up vaccination ; but the truth was clear enough that the continuance of the disease was due to artificial causes, from the practice of tainting the whole race with smallpox poison, firstly, by inoculation from 1722 tv 1798, and then by vaccination from 1804 to 1872. The disgusting rite of vaccination was really kept up on the responsibility of two men-Dr. Simon, the medical officer to the Medical Department of the Privy Council, and Dr. Seaton, the inspector under the same Board. Dr. Simon and Dr Seaton had made the same blunder that was made in connection with the establishment of inoculation-they trusted to statistics instead of showing the rationale of the observance. Statistics were all very well in their place, but applied to convince the people of a medical dogma, the evidence of figures should be carefully scrutinised. What would be the consequence if theologians were to argue that that religion was the safest and truest which gathered within its sanctuary the largest number of converts? If that position had been accepted, Christendom would now be bowing its knees before the altar of Buddha! All physiologists, from John Hunter to Dr. Copland, had exhausted the powers of their language in depicting the miseries attendant upon blood-inoculation ; and yet Dr. Simon and Dr. Seaton could not see the terrible nature of the operation they persisted in enforcing. The common sense of the people had condemned the rite long since, but the history of vaccination had showed that when once a rite came under the protection of the law how difficult it was to displace it. Dr. Moore, the highest authority on both subjects, had said that " millions" had been uselessly sacrificed by inoculation ; and the histortan was born, although we could not give him "a local habitation and a name," who would write the same fact with respect to the sister rite of vaccination. Dr. Seaton had constructed a table showing how the smallpox had diminished in correspondence with the spread of vaccination. He had grouped the years into periods dating from 1838, the year in which we first had any registration returns, to 1840, in which years we had no vaccination laws ; then from 1841, when vaccination was gratuitous by enactment, to 1853 ; and thirdly from 1854, when vaccination was obligatory by an Act passed in the previous year, to the year 1866,-in the following year, 1867, the Compulsory Act was passed. These   [October 1, 1872. three periods including three years' averages of the death-rate from smallpox, the second period including the averages of nine years, and the third period including averages of thirteen years, certainly favoured the notion upon which Dr. Seaton placed. so great a reliance, and showed there had been a trifling saving in the smallpox death-rate.-The lecturer had exhibited upon the platform six elaborate tables, showing the death-rate from the " causes of death'? under the heads of scrofula, syphilis, tubes mesenterica, diarrhoea, bronchitis, atrophy, and debility. These tables were arranged on the same plan as Dr. Seaton's table showing the mortality from smallpox. The increase in the death-rate from all these diseases contemporaneously with the periods when the Vaccination Acts were rigidly enforced, was startling. The death-rate from bronchitis was 1927 per annum in the first period of three years; in the second period of nine years it rose to an average of 13,522 per annum; whilst in the last period of thirteen years it again advanced to 30,310 per annum. These figures were taken from the Registrar-General's returns, and did not show any deduction on account of the increase of the population. Between the years 1838 and 1866 the population had increased 380 per cent., so that by adding 30 per cent. to the first three years' averages, it would be seen that the enormous increase in the mortality from bronchitis was a thing frightful to contemplate! In fact, it was evident that bronchitis, diarrhoea, and atrophy and debility, as death causes, were really so many plagues in themselves; and he could assure the audience that all these causes of death were increasing in severity and in numbers every year; in truth, they were keeping pace with vaccination, and forcing the idea upon us that the death-rate follows the pay-rate and the vaccination-rate. -The lecturer quoted returns from the Poor Law Board of successful vaccination as contrasted with the births for the last 18 years, for which the returns were complete, and they confirmed the returns of the Registrar-General, and showed conclusively that the death-rate from smallpox, from " zymotic diseases," and from " all causes,' increased and declined with the vaccination rate. This was evidence which could not be gainsaid, nor should we shut our eyes to the facts thus disclosed. The lecturer quoted letters he had received from a certain foreign physician during the last few days, whose testimony was confirmatory of the above conclusions. He then referred to the principles held by pro-vaccinators- that vaccination was a protective against smallpox, and that persons vaccinated if they had the disease had it in a milder shape. In disproof of both statements he quoted the statistics from English hospitals, from the mortality in London, in Berlin- where the people were re-vaccinated, and where there were three times the deaths there were in London, which had three times the population-and in Paris, all of which combined to prove that where there was the most and the best vaccination, there was the most and the worst mortality from smallpox. This position was impregnable. The pro-vaccinators had October 1, 1872.} been driven from "pillar to post,'' and from one false refuge to another, and they were nearly beside themselves. The "four-mark theory" of Dr. Marson was another delusion which, judging from a report just issued by the Metropolitan Asylum Board, was destined to "run its course"' of folly, and to show the utter destitution of those who advocated the barbarous and wicked rite of vaccination. For money, pelf, filthy lucre, this rite had been continued down to the present day; and he had no hesitation in saying that if the money part of the business was outvoted to-morrow, there was not a doctor in the three kingdoms who would not find out in a month the immense mischief which vaccination had done. (Loud applause.) As had been already said, in his discourse the other day before the British Association, Dr. Carpenter urged that the common sense of the people must now be admitted as an element of evidence in connection with scientific questions. The common sense of the people had discovered the mischief of inoculation, and a century ago they threatened, if the practice was not discontinued, they would reduce the stations to ruin. History might repeat itself once more. The day might yet come when the common sense of the people would assert its power in the matter of Jenner's abomination and imposture. In that hour the rite would perish for ever.-The lecturer, who spoke for nearly two hours, was listened to with the greatest attention, and, on resuming his seat, was loudly applauded. Mr. EK. Railton.moved a vote of thanks to the lecturer, which was warmly accorded.-Baubury Guardian, Aug. 22, 1872. Vaccination Prosecutions and The Isle of Wight Board of Guardians. Mr. Maurice Dear presided at the fortnightly meeting of the Guardians, held at Parkhurst, on Thursday, when there were also present the Rey. C. Theobald, and Messrs. John Hillier, J. K. Hollis, E. F. Blake, J. Sanders, W. J. Tull, H. Knight, H. Waterworth, John Lock, Mark Morgan, R. Aldridge, and F. Roach. The Guardians and Vaccination._-_Mr. Whitmaich, vaccination officer for the Cowes district, reported that Mr. Phillips, of Cowes, refused to comply with the Vaccination Act.- The Rev. C. Theobald said that, by the resolution passed at the last meeting, it was only necessary for the officer to report cases of refusal, and then take proceedings. It was not now necessary to move prosecutions.- Mr. EH. F. Blake remarked that it was necessary, under the resolution referred to by Mr. Theobald, that each case should be reported to the Board. He knew nothing of this particular case; but he felt bound to protest against the somewhat unfair part which some Guardians had taken in this matter of vaccination. Six weeks or  . 189 two months ago a majority of the Guardians then present decided in favour of a discontinuance(r)of these prosecutions.-[ Mr. Waterworth: Only in Mr. Cogger's case." ]-Well, that resolution having been come to, what happened? Why, at the next meeting a Guardian gave notice of a motion-to the effect that proceedings be taken-completely ignoring what had been done at the former meeting. That, he considered, was a very hasty proceeding, and was not in accordance with his views of thé manner in which the business of a public body should be conducted. If the decision of one meeting were to be set aside at the next, he could scarcely conceive what use there was in discussing questions at all. Again he urged the Guardians in this matter of vaccination to act not harshly and tyrannously, but with tolerance and humanity. If a person wilfully disobeyed the law, let him be prosecuted; but if, in such a question as this, a man acted from conscientious convictions, surely those convictions ought to be respected. If he knew that Mr. Phillips objected to vaccination on conscientious grounds, he should certainly move a resolution. -The Chairman: I know him to be a highly respectable man; and from what I hear I believe him to be one of those who conscientiously object to vaccination.-Mr. E. F. Blake, having received that assurance from the Chairman, said he would move that no proceedings be taken against Mr. Phillips, whom he did not know personally, but he respected the honest scruples of any man. As he pointed out to the Board six weeks ago-supposing the Guardians determined not to take these proceedings, the Local Government Board could apply for a man- | damus, and he remarked at that time on the improbability of such a course being adopted. What had occurred since then? Why, the Guardians had actually, by resolution, determined not to take proceedings-for a whole month they declined to prosecute; and though that fact was known to the Local Government Board, no mandamus was applied for.-'The Clerk remarked that in the case of the Hastings Union, where the Guardians refused to take proceedings, a mandamus was applied for and obtained.-Mr. Blake: That was some time ago.-The Clerk said the Medical Inspector of the Local Government Board would have attended here when the question was discussed, but for a mistake as to the day.-Mr. Henry Mortimer said he was the mover of the resolution which Mr. Blake had said had been hastily proposed. He should like to know from any opponent of vaccination when would be the right time to bring such a proposition forward ? If he had waited six or twelve months, it would have been said-'' Having delayed the thing so long, why not let it drop altogether?' Asa Guardian, he endeavoured to go straight at the question, without regard to A or B. He knew nothing of Mr. Cogger -did not even know him by sight; and to insinuate that he had any personal feeling in the matter was the height of absurdity. If, as a Guardian, he felt it his duty to bring this matter forward, then the sooner it was done the better; and having done it, 190   [October 1, 1872. he could look every man straight in the face, and defy him to prove that he had acted from other than conscientious motives. What (he asked) would be the use of employing vaccination officers and public vaccinators, if the objections of individual opponents of the law were allowed to prevail? At a former meeting, Mr. Blake asked one of the vaccination officers if a certain person had not a conscientious objection to vaccination. That, he thought, was an absurd question; for who could judge of a man's conscience ? It was a most difficult matter even for a clergyman, and certainly no vaccination officer ought to be expected to give an opinion upon it. - Mr. Blake denied that the question he put was absurd, as it was possible to tell by a man's general conduct whether he acted from conscientious motives. He added, that if the island were canvassed, a large majority of the inhabitants would be against these prosecutions, and if the Guardians really represented the ratepayers they ought to vote against the enforcement of the Act in cases like the present.- Mr. Waterworth pointed out that Mr. Blake's assertions were not necessarily facts. -Mr. H. Mortimer: 1 have heard outside that an effort will be made to remove me from the representation of the parish. If Iam not to be allowed to vote in this room as I like, I would much rather cease to be a member of the Board.-Mr. Henry Knight seconded Mr. Blake's proposition, and stated that they should act liberallyin this matter. He had no doubt that they all acted conscientiously, and some of them relieved their consciences by perpetually moving these prosecutions. Mr. Knight then made some personal observations, which called forth a strong protest from the Rev. C. Theobald and other Guardians.- After some further discussion, the Board divided, when there appeared-For Mr. Blake's proposition, three (Messrs. Blake, Knight, and Sanders) ; against, seven. The law, in the case of Mr. Phillips, will, therefore, tuke its course-Mr. Knight said the names of Guardians taking part in a division ought to be recorded; and the Clerk remarked that it had never been the custom to record the votes of individual Guardians.- Hampshire Independent. VYaecination and its Hvil HEifects. To the Editor of the /lereford Journal. Sir, Whilst the Boards of Guardians insist 'that every child shall be vaccinated, they should also insist that the men they employ to do the work shall not take the lymph from impure persons. I can only say that the sooner something is done to secure the public in this way, the better. The Act to compél persons to be vaccinated should also provide that pure lymph alone should be used. As it is, it ig one of the greatest curses ever sent into a civilised country. I will state my case, and leave others to judge. About three months since, after the relieving' officer of the district had given the proper notice ~ before legal proceedings would be taken against me for not complying with the law, I had my child vaccinated by one of the public vaccinators, sa medical man. In a few days after, the poor child's arm became one mass of pus, about the size of a five-shilling piece, and a clear watery blister made its appearance; this discharged fearfully, and saturated the child's clothes, and at night the dress and bed clothes were in a fearful state. Ulcers. broke out all over the face, neck, ears, and eyes, and the head become a mass of running sores; and every now and then fresh sores are still breaking out, and discharging the same thin colourless fluid. The next child, from playing with the baby, became affected, or afflicted, with the same disease, which ran the same course and in the same way as with the baby. Then the next child, then my wife, and at last myself. At one time my eyes were so bad that I was confined to my-house for several days. My head is now in a fearful state, and neither of the children are yet free. Now, sir, I say, without fear ,of contradiction even from the Lancet or the Coileze of Surgeons, that the medical man referred to is utterly unfit to vaccinate, unless he is a judge of what he is doing, for the stuff he used on my child was tainted with something ten times worse than the smallpox. I intend consulting a man 'learned in the law,' and if I can, will bring an action against this unworthy man, who only cared for his fee, regardless of the injury he has done me and my family, which may be a lifelong one. I say to all parents of children - Don't have your children poisoned." A Sufferer, '"Scene" at an Auction. Goods Seized under the Vaccination Act, at Banbury. On. Tuesday the crier announced a sale of "120 lots of neat and clean household furniture, the property of a party leaving,' at the Central Corn Exchange, by Mr. J. J. Harrison. A short time | after he had made this announcement, he went round | a second time, with the information that the goods recently seized under the Vaccination Act would be sold at the Central Corn Exchange, and all those interested were respectfully invited to attend. The consequence was that a number of Anti-vaccinators who had previously got wind of the intended sale of the seized goods, put in an appearance at the sale, and a small handbill to the following effect had been printed, and was distributed among those present :- "The following lots were seized for non-compliance with the Vaccination Order:-Lots 39, 48, 51, 52, 53, 54, 65, 56, 57, 58, 69, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, and 93." The sale proceeded until lot 39 (a mattress) was reached, when Mr. Harrison said that this was one of the articles seized under the vaccination tion Act, and as there was a strong feeling in the October 1, 1872.]  . IO! town in regard to the matter, he would not offer the articles for sale at present. This was followed by hooting and hissing, which lasted for about a quarter ofan hour. Mr. Jelfs, of the Crown, Neithrop, said the crier went round and said the things would be sold, and he wanted to know if it was a mock auction, which caused some laughter. Some of those to whom the goods originally belonged demanded | their sale; and a Mr. Shrimpton said he had been told that Mr. Harrison himself had bought the goods. Mr. Harrison replied that he had not bought them. Others present also alleged that Mr. Harrison had bought them, and that they had good authority for stating so. When quiet had been restored, the sale proceeded, and some amusement was occasionally created by people asking if the goods were vaccinated. About five o'clock an adjournment was made for tea, and Mr. Harrison was understood to say that the sale would be resumed at six o'clock, and if so, the erier would go round. Mr. Shrimpton then asked if he was not going to put up ''the vaccination lots?" and Mr. Harrison said'no, and he thought he could justify his position. Considerable altercation followed, and Mr. Harrison said he had as much sympathy with the Anti-vaccinators as any of them; whereupon a Mr. Smith said that if so, he would not have had anything to do with the goods-a remark which was received with '"'hear, hear!' and applause. Mr. Harrison was charged with having broken faith, he having said (it was alleged) he would have nothing to do with the goods. On the other hand, Mr. Harrison said that it was at the request of one of their own party that he withdrew the goods. This sort of thing continued for some time, and it was said that the auction had not been properly carried out, the number of the lots not being mentioned when put up; but Mr. Harrison contended that it had. been conducted as any other auctioneer would have done it. The sale, which took place in the Butter Market, was not resumed in the evening. The goodsin dispute were taken from Messrs. Taplin, | Tobin, Cutcliffe, and Mold, some weeks since.- Banbury Guardian, Sept. 7. Vaccination Prosecutions. Wigan.-William Henry Knight, of Whelley, and Levi Booth, of Wallgate, were again summoned at the instance of Mr. Halliwell, vaccination officer for the borough, for breaches of the Vaccination Acts. -Mr. Ackerley, clerk to the guardians, prosecuted, and the magistrates fined Mr. Knight, who appeared | £1 and costs for | in answer to two summonses, each offence. In the case of Mr. Booth, an order to vaccinate was made. Mr. Knight said he thought the justices were rather hard upon him in imposing the full penalty every time he was summoned; this was not done, he noticed, in other towns. Mr. Booth said his child had not been vaccinated and was not going to be.- Wigan Observer, Sept. 14, Ludlow. Mr. Henry Watts, cabinet maker, was charged with disobeying an order of the magistrates to have one of his children vaccinated.-Mr. Watts s:id the child had been poorly for four months, and although somewhat better, it was still not well.- The Magistrates asked for a certificate, and Mr. Watts left the court to get one, and on his return with it, the magistrates ordered the summons to be adjourned for 14 days. Mr. John Price, tinman, was also charged on four summonses with disobeying an order to have each of his four children vaccinated. The Mayor asked the defendant if he still persisted in his refusal to have his children vaccinated.-The defendant said he could not allow it to be done.- The Mayor then said that the magistrates had a very 'disagreeable duty to perform in fining the defendant again and again. The Chairman of the Guardians had told him (the Mayor) that if the magistrates had been more severe in the amount of the fines, the defendant would have given way long ago. The defendant would be fined 4/- and 62/- costs, the amount to be paid in seven days.-Hereford Journal, ify. Watts and his Adjourned Swmmonses. - Mr. Henry Watts, cabinet maker, appeared to an adjourned summons, in which he was charged with disobeying an order of the magistrates to vaccinate his youngest child-Mr. Mountford, solicitor, appeared for Mr. Watts, and continded that his client was illegally summoned, inasmuch as the 11th section of the Vaccination Amendment Act (1871) provided that all offences under the Act must be prosecuted within twelve months from the time when the cause of the information arose (that is, before the child is 15 months old), and not subsequently. Now, Mr. Watts's child was 18 months old, and the magistrates had no jurisdiction, and ought not to have made the order which his client was summoned for disobeying ; and so strong was his opinion on the point, he had raised that if the magistrates convicted he was prepared to carry the case before the Court of Queen's Bench.-The Mayor thought there should be a fine imposed, because the Board of Guardians complained that the Magistrates were too lenient in these cases. -Mr. Davies was opposed to this view of the case, and wished it to go forth to the public that he protested against any remarks or dictation as to what he, asa magistrate, ought to do.-After some further discussion, the summons was again adjourned for seven days.-Hereford Journal, Aug. 10. Mr. Henry Watts, cabinet maker, appeared in answer to a summons, which has been several times adjourned, for :cfusing to obey an order of the magistrates to have his child vaceinated. - Mr. Mountford, solicitor, appearcd for Mr. Watts, and 'made three more objections to the legality of the order to vaccinate, In addition to those he made a fortnight ago, and reported in the Hereford Journal for August 10th.-The Magistrates decided to fine Mr. Watts 20/- and the costs.-Mr. Mountford asked for and obtained a case for the Court of Queen's Bench,-Hereford Journal, Aug. 24, 192 The Anti-Vaccinator. [October 1, 1872. Cumulative Penalties. We publish the following official correspondence :- 73, Cookridge-street Leeds, Aug. 30, 1872. Sir,-I beg to forward you the particulars of the repeated penalties which I have paid for refusing to have my daughter poisoned by the virus of vaccination; and to ask you to remit such penalties after the first, inasmuch as the repeated penalties are enforced without any authority under the Vaccination Acts of 1867. There are absolutely no such words in that Act as '' repeated" or '' cumulative" penalties. Mr. Candlish, M.P., who was a member of the Committee having charge of the Act of 1867, stated before the Select Committee on the Vaccination Acts, in May, 1871, that repeated penalties were never contemplated. The principle is un-English, and is not sanctioned by a single precedent in our statute laws; and I have, therefore, confidence in appealing to you to remit those penalties and costs, amounting to £4. 9s. 6d. - Re Mabel Agnes Pickering, born 11th December, 1869. 1st summons to appear, 5th July, 1870; adjourned to 2nd August. 2nd August-fined 20/-, and 9/6 costs. 2nd summons to appear, 2nd November, 1870; adjourned to 8th Nov. 8th Nov.-order made, costs 11/-. 3rd summons to appear, 3rd February, 1871; fined 20/-, and costs 8/6. 4th summons to appear, 21st Aug. 1871; order made, costs 8/6. 5th summons to appear, 22nd Nov. 1871; fined 20/-, and costs 13/-. 6th summons to appear, 24th April, 1872; order made, costs 8/6. I need not recapitulate the objections to vaccination. I shall be content to say, that I regard it as the most gigantic and mischievous imposture that ever afflicted this country. Even inoculation, with all its attendant miseries, was not a tenth part so injurious, because the art was more circumscribed. In our day-and, in fact, since 1841-the death-rate has followed the vaccination -rate. The deaths from smallpox, from zymotic diseases, and all causes, have increased and declined proportionately with the high or low percentage of vaccination. These are facts which ought to make any Minister hesitate before he gives his sanction-even if that sanction be only influenced to the extent of his non-interference with the course of the law- to an observance so pernicious in its operation upon the public health, and to which the public have manifested such determined opposition. Repeated penalties and repeated imprison-. ments for what is to all intents and purposes one and the same offence, will not be endured, nor can they be enforced much longer without endangering that respect to the law which is so prominent a characteristic of all classes of the community. And when the objection is extended to the rite itself, and upon such cumulative evidence as that which is brought under the notice of the public daily, the danger I refer to is doubly increased. Such a collision between intelligent and conscientious men, and the Legislature which enforces this abominable Vaccination Act, would be a circumstance much to be regretted. I convey this opinion as so much information merely, and I do not wish it to be construed in any other light. I ask you, sir, in all frankness, whether a timely concession, such as that involved in a remission of the penalties, and thus discountenancing '' repeated penalties" (as I have said before, for one and the same offence), would not only be a justifiable course, but the only practicable way of allaying that ill feeling which is roused and promoted by the intemperate proceedings of Boards of Guardians and Magistrates in this matter ?-I have the honour to be, sir, your very obedient servant, Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S., &. To the Right Hon. H. A. Bruce, M.P., Home Secretary, Whitehall, London. Whitehall, 8rd Sept. 1872. Sir,-I am directed by Mr. Secretary Bruce to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 30th ultimo, with reference to penalties inflicted upon you under the provisions of the Vaccination Act, 1867, and to inform you, in reply, that the Secretary of State cannot interfere in the matter.-I am, sir, your obedient servant, A. F. O. Liddell. Mr. John Pickering, Cookridge-street, Leeds. The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... 1s. 6d. Do. 12 as All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 78, Cookridge-street, Leeds. "Printed by J. Ward, Caxten Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . --- Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.S.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, : 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. KE All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 13. New Series. October: 18313872, [Price One Penny. Contents, attra Page INOLES TONE PaAscin oe TH VCMtS "oles uss soci clecc ses 193 Selections from Dr. Carpenter's Inaugural PNG ORESSiarectyetcteneyaloner eve rere svsieiere: gysloia-c vist sie: s'sv susie seis 194 Common Sense as an Instrument of Science .. 195 Swrall=poxey StAavIsolCd a cee :-\clereiere.o.s/0 1wisisie eels) s-siere 197 PROLCCUION) abi HaWliy APA: 1. ccc crareise isis sicisyersieis" 199 Me Mistakes Of JIMMeLISM ....s00.ceeccce sce 199 IDEM, TNO ALICE SAS ea EOC OOOO GUO ComOGas SoGOobe 199 VEE ORT Me AertACl Cin. Panfevclors cre /cleiera elseie eles! o slelel siorerdicin 200 smallpox at the Workhouse ......j0..005-000- 203 Vaccination under Difficulties.........sees.s-s- 203 Bade Pikeets) OLA VACCIMaAtlOM) 2. <<. 2/01s/s1,+s.01016:6 010. 204. Public Meeting at Gainsborough ............e6 206 Vaccination Prosecutions: Shields, Leeds...... 206 Notes on Passing Events. Mv. Wilcockson, of Manchester, has ventured to question the medical statistics prepared by the authorities, and published in the Hxaminer and Times. It is almost passing strange what a likeness there is now between recent returns, and those circulated by the Metropohtan Asylums Board. In the last mentioned report the Union surgeons throughout the country have tables already prepared for them, they have only just to alter the figures, and sing to the same tune, and Boards of Guardians believe all they say, credit every figure, and uphold the delusion. Thus the doctors arrest the eye, whilst their fingers are playing in the ratepayers' pocket. But what about the statistics? Are the particulars forthcoming? Not at all. That would never do. If truth were on their side, why withhold a single particular? The vaccinator knows that his art is built upon a false foundation, and it must be supported by misrepresentation, or it would totter and fall in a trice. He must put off the evil day as long as he can ;-an eyil day it will indeed be when the people rise to the full measure of Jenner's imposture ! We publish Mr. Nankivell's case of '' Bad Effects of Vaccination,' and with it his commentary thereon, and he is right in saying that 'it is mere folly to pooh-pooh the horror in which vaccination is held by a large party in this country," and he is equally wrong in saying "it will be the disgrace of our profession 1f some means are not discovered of rendering vaccine lymph inocuous." There is no such discovery to be made beyond that which the people have found out long ago-' Let it alone!' To vaccinate is to poison the healthy blood of our children, and it is a disgrace to those members of the profession, who, like Mr. Nankivell himself, cannot sce it in that light. The faculty will not abstract their attention from specifics and prophylactics. The question, however, must be settled now, upon this very spot; andif the profession do not step in and lead, the people will soon say to them-" Stand aside, your chance is gone; henceforth we will do without you." Mr. Nankivell, you must be up and doing. Time presses, and death is hard at work gathering in his harvest before the sun of truth shall rise, and with his brightest beams dispel the mists of ages. a 194   [October 15, 1872. Another little ''scene" is recorded by the Newcastle Chronicle, when three persons were prosecuted at the instance of the Sunderland Board of Guardians. All three bore testimony to the strength of. their principles-that by yielding to the law they would do violence to their conscientious convictions. The last of the three said-'' The child shall not be vaccinated as long as I live, so you may do as you lke." The report adds-There was ''applause in the gallery." Scenes like this would bring any questionable law into disrepute; how much more so when the law is enforced to carry out a practice that is in itself the greatest scourge of the present century ! The British Medical Journal is evidently indignant that the Chinese doctors of San Francisco should import venomous snakes and lizards from their own country, and after due preparation of boiling or pulverising, these ''cheerful-looking creatures" should be administered to the Chinese patients resident in that city, either in sections, in powders, or in pills. The Chinese doctors are not half so heathenish as the English physicians, for the latter take the smallpox virus, and after inoculating the cow with it, they collect the virus again from that animal, and afterwards mix it with the healthy blood of our children! For savagery and bestiality the practice of vaccination has no equal. The advocate of inoculation-a rite which was an unmitigated curse -only employed humanised lymph, and it was left to a comparatively civilised age to bestialise the lymph before using it in our families, and amongst our children. A lump of boiled serpent isa harmless article, nay it is a delicacy, when compared to a point full of Jenner's virus. The English physicians stick to their poison, and uphold the usance for the sake of the profit. But when they speak of the filthy virus as ''pure lymph" and a '' prophylactic," there is ''a lying spirit'' in all their mouths. A greater truism than that of Juvenal was never penned - " Lucri bonus est odor ex re qualibet."* * "All gain smells sweet, from whatso'er it springs." 'The gain from vaccination , fairly rendered, means the annual sacrifice of one hundred thousand persons in England and Wales alone. The world has seen no Moloch yet one half go blood-thirsty and so cruel as | Jennerism! Happy the day that shall record the emancipation of our children from the compulsory clauses of an enactment which is the foulest blot on the statute book of the nation. It appears from a paragraph in the Pall Mail Gazette, that the fishermen of Foula, a solitary island rising out of the Atlantic, situate some 25 miles from the mainland of Shetland, seem to entertain strong objections to vaccination. Indeed the vaccinators, who paid them a recent visit, were glad to.escape from the island without having incurred a penalty which is not to be found in the Acts, viz.-a compulsory ducking in the Loch of Ivrafadna. We should like to have to sign the departmental order for Dr. Simon and Dr. Seaton to be sent to Foula to carry out the operations which the inspector and medical officer of Walls failed to perform. Even in that case our sympathies would be with the fishes of Ivrafadna's Loch, for they might accidentally get a taste of Jenner's prophylactic. Hach islander and each brawny wife, after having dipped the Jew and the Scot, might then sing- '* Novt Simonem, et Simon me." + Selections from Dr. Carpenter's Inaugural Address to the British Association at their Brighton Meeting. Whilst, then, the artist aims to picture what he sees in nature, itis the object of the poet to represent what he feels in nature; and to each true poet nature is what he individually finds in her. The philosopher's interpretation of nature seems less individual than that of the artist or the poet, because it is based on facts which any one may verify, and is elaborated by reasoning processes of which all admit the validity. He looks at the universe as a vast book lying open before him, of which he has in the first place to learn the characters, then to master the language, and finally to apprehend the ideas which + "I know Simon, and Simon knows me.' October 15, 1872.] that language conveys. In that book there are many chapters, treating of different subjects; and as life is too short for any one man to grasp the whole, the scientific interpretation of this book comes to be the work of many intellects, differing not merely in the range but also in the character of their powers. But whilst there are " diversities of gifts," there is "the same spirit."' While each takes his special direction, the general method of study is the same for all. And it is a testimony alike to the truth of that method and to the unity of nature, that there is an ever- increasing tendency towards agreement among those who use it aright; temporary differences of interpretation being removed, sometimes by a more complete mastery of her language, sometimes by a better apprehension of her ideas; and lines of pursuit which had scemed entirely distinct, or even widely divergent, being found to lead at last to one common goal. And it is this agreement which gives rise to the general belief-in many, to the confident assurance-that the scientific interpretation of nature represents her not merely as she seems, but as she really is. When, however, we carefully examine the foundation of that assurance, we find reason to distrust its security ; for it can be shown to be no less true of the scientific conception of nature, than it is of the artistic or the poetic, that itis a representation framed by the mind itself out of the materials supplied by the impressions which external objects make upon the senses; so that to each man of science, nature is what he individually believes her to be. And that belief will rest on very different bases, and will have very unequal values, in different departments of science. We are accustomed (and I think most rightly) to speak of these achievements as triumphs of the human intellect. But the very phrase implies that the work is done by mental agency ; and the coincidence of its results with the facts of observation is far from proving the intellectual process to have been correct. In a large number of other cases our scientific interpretations are clearly matters of judgment; and this is eminently a personal act, the value of its results depending in each case upon the qualifications of the individual for arriving at a correct decision. The surest of such judgments are those dictated by what we term common sense, as to matters on which there seems no room for difference of opinion, because every sane person comes to the same conclusion, although he may be able to give no other reason for it than that it appears to him " self-evident." Thus while philosophers-have raised a thick cloud of dust in the discussions of the basis of our belief in the existence of a world external to ourselves-of the non ego, as distinct from the ego-and while every logician claims to have found some flaw in the proof advanced by every other, the common sense of mankind has arrived at a decision that is practically worth all the arguments of all the philosophers who have fought again and again over this battle-ground. And 1 think it can be shown that the trustworthiness of this common sense decision arises from its dependence, not on any one set of experiences, but upon our unconscious co-ordination of the whole aggregate of our experiences ; not on the conclusiveness of any one train of reasoning, but on the convergence of all our lines of thought towards this one centre. Now, this "common sense,' disciplined and enlarged by appropriate culture, becomes one of our most valuable instruments of scientific inquiry, affording in many instances the best, and sometimes the only, basis for a rational conclusion.- Daily News, Aug. 16. Common Sense as an Instrument of Science. The new President of the British Association has pronounced his inaugural address, which bears the stamp of the writer's individuality, This is as it should be. A Carpenter is not a William Thomson, nor a Thomson a Whewell, nora Whewell a Herschel. Hach has his special mind, and we get the best fruit of each. The schoolfellows of Dr. W. B. Carpenter in quite early life despised him, as a slow-plodding lad, never brilliant, prevalently tedious and tiresome. With surprise they gradually discovered that his indefatigable industry, directed chiefly to comparative physiology, was earning for him a European reputation ; and that his painstaking accuracy did not hinder, but rather aided him in that wide generalisation which is the richest reward to the conscientious inquirer. It is pretty generally known that he can -be very tedious when allowed unlimited time: his conscientious fear of any inaccuracy or insufficiency of limitation conduses to it. Some say, that when he is forced to compress himself into narrow limits, his utterances become at last brillant, as concentrated light. By his constitutional caution he is a valuable reconciler and arbitrator between opposite schools of scientific opmion; and as he has devoted much thought to consider what is the logic of science, physical and metaphysical, his very deliberate address now made is opportune and valuable. Tous, the most cardinal and important sentences in it are those which declare the necessity of common sense to sound judgment, and of judgment in every application of induction, and indeed deduction. '' Philosophers," says Dr. W. B. C., '' have raised a thick cloud of dust in the discussion of the basis of our belief in the existence of a world external to ourselyes;"' 196   [October 13, 1872. but (he adds) the common sense of mankind is worth all their arguments. Asa typical example of common sense, he appeals to the '" flint implements"' found in the gravel beds of Abbeville and Amiens. When you look at one or two, you may think the flints received their shape by chance, but on seeing more and more, you become certain thatit is by design ; and no unprejudiced person now doubts it. You cannot give any scientific rule how soon we ought to be convinced, but the concurrence of sound minds soon decides that the phenomena are too much for accident. Dr. W. B. Carpenter does not assert what has been asserted elsewhere-(for instance, in the Miscellanies of Professor F. W. Newman- ''Fragments of Logic," pp. 48, 47, 56)-that all induction ultimately appeals to common sense as arbiter of the fact that the phenomena observed are ''too much for chance;'' but he proceeds to declare that the sound and steady progress of geology dates from the era when common sense became dominant in its inductions. The scientific men who throng the British Association are sure to rally in mass against many forms of what they regard as false science, if for a moment it seem needful,-as against table-turning and spirit-rapping, clairvoyance, homceopathy, and everything sayouring of magic. They will demand severely of a spirit-rapper whence he obtained his first and cardinal idea, that raps are to be counted off on letters of the English alphabet, so that four raps mean D, and seven raps G, and that then these letters are to be put together into words. But it amazes us that, in general, they pass by so leniently baseless theories of the medical school which has preoccupied state patronage. Perhaps their silence is only prudential; for some of the ablest do not conceal in private their contempt for current medical pretension. We claim of Dr. W. B. Carpenter to bestow a little common sense on the vaccination question, and on the kindred question of cattle plague, and other cases of alleged contagion. The medical faculty are quite aware that every disease has its origin in unhealthy conditions, and that what happened once, can recur, and is likely to recur, a thousand times if the same conditions are afforded; yet they talkand act as if they did not know this. They tell us that smallpox was generated somewhere in China at a distant era, and was imported to Kurope and England, and thenceforward is propagated by mere transmission. They do not tell us flatly that China has lost the power of generating the disease, but if any one imagines that it can be generated in England, they are positive that this is an error. When men live overcrowded in rooms poisoned with gas, or with houses ill-drained, and smallpox breaks out, our wiseacre practitioners infer that the disease has been transmitted from without, and might have been stopped by vaccination. They dream of 'stamping out" disease in men or cattle while the conditions of unhealth remain; as if in this way they possibly could do anything but vary the form. '' Statistics," in which they so trust, notoriously will prove anything, if applied without sound judgment. Astrology had its statistics: but common sense teaches us that there are things which it is ridiculous to attempt to support by statistics or (so called) experience, We knew a lady, of much talent and information and high mental activity, who, as the result of many experiments made by herself, believed that a gold ring, suspended by a human hair, and held over the edge of a china vase as steadily as possible, was attracted by the vase, and would strike wpon it the hour of the day ; that is, would strike 4 times if the clock was between 4 and 5, 9 times if the clock was between 9 and 10, and so on. She wasannoyed by our incredulity, and thought our indisposition to make the experiment a proof of bigotry. She could not be made to understand our a priori disproof, turning on the fact that the numbers which we affix to the hours are arbitrary, and that nothing hinders our counting up to 24 with the Italians, or starting from sunset as the beginning, like the ancient Hebrews. Just such blunders are committed in statisties when men neglect broad principles. The more active their minds, and the greater their knowledge of detail, the deeper is their error likely to be. Tolle causam-'' remove the cause''-was ancient wisdom. Leave the causes in activity, and vaccination is modern folly. October 15, 1872.) smallPox Statistics. (From the Cosmopolitan.) The following letter has been addressed to the President of the Local Government Board: South Sea House, Threadneedle-street, 10th Sept. 1572. Sir,-I beg to enclose statistics of the recent smallpox epidemic in England, from which you will be able to appreciate the true value of statements like those put forth by medical officers (see Zimes article of the 24th ultimo) in reference to Bristol, where the disease can scarcely be said to be epidemic at all, although I am informed it broke out in the orphan asylums. 'The proportionate rate of smallpox mortality to population in these five orphan homes was equal to that of Great Grimsby, though the deaths in "proportion to cases reached only 6:2 per cent., the children having all been vaccinated, probably revaccinated, by way of precaution. It is much to be regretted that the war carried on in France should have caused the authorities of Berlin to lose, or neglect to make, the customary records of smallpox mortality in that city during the first six months of 1871, as would appear from Major Graham's '" Annual Summary" for the year ; because, seeing that the epidemic duration usually extended over four quarters in the several districts in England, and in some of them to five and even six quarters, the three quarters only thus made available of the Berlin statistics do not admit of a fair comparison; the rates reaching 69:0, 90°0 and 45:0 per 10,000 of population, as they do for those quarters, may have been heavier still in the Ist, 2nd, or 3rd previous quarters; and it would have been interesting to compare the mortality in the Continental inland town, where it is admitted that vaccination has very long been compulsory, with that of the Dutch ports, in like manner as we are now able to compare the fortunes of the inland towns with sea and river ports of England. I take this opportunity of stating that the returns published by the medical officer of Hackney, show that in that district the proportion of smallpox mortality (1871) among children under five, to total smallpox deaths, was 37:7 per cent. (7.e., following immediately the five years of most stringent compulsory vaccination), or much the same as Dundee during the first five months of the present year. I may further observe, that the healthy country district of Mold, where very special credit has been given for attention to vaccination (Commons Committee Evidence, query 5,345-50) has suffered an epidemic rate as nearly as possible the same as Liverpool; and if we did not know that it is the poor who fall a prey to epidemics, however virulent the alleged " contagion" (as witness the comparative immunity of Birkenhead, which also includes Tranmere and Wallasey), we might be told that Mold, though not Birkenhead, Bangor, Conway, Anglesey, or even Holywell, has been furnished with its mortality by refugees or sick persons from Liverpool. But, in trath, there are 540 districts out of the total of 600, each ready, no doubt, to accuse some other of transmitting a disease which, according to medical theory-having at least succeeded in robbing the mass of the people of all freedom and all law-should have been altogether prevented in every one of them.-I have the honour to be, sir, your most obedient servant, T. Baker. The Right Hon. James Stansfeld, M.P. &c. smallPox Statistics in England in 1870-1-2., The recent smallpox epidemic in England and Wales may be said to have commenced in the last quarter of 1870, and continued to the end of the 2nd quarter of 1872, soon after which dry weather set in. Brighton and Llanelly, two coast towns, appear to have been first epidemically attacked ; next London, and the ports on the East coast. With very few exceptions the epidemic period did not extend over more than four quarters at one place ; in some only two, bursting into activity, and as suddenly departing. In several, the greatest mortality was during the quarter last past, and therefore in these places it may not yet be over. The epidemic varied exceptionally in its duration, as well as its date. 'Thus its force was spread over six quarters in Swansea and Guisborough ; five in Durham, Leeds, and Wolverhampton ; whilst, on the the other hand, at Norwich, Yeovil, Chester, Weymouth, and Stoke-upon-Trent, it spent itself in two quarters. Persons who believe that vaccination spreads instead of mitigating the disease, note that man of the later outbreaks (marked thus + in the tables) have followed the panic and vaccination prosecutions. They point to this cause and effect (a), and anticipate that a long continuance of smallpox may be the result of such increased inoculation-as they deem vaccination to be, in fact. From the following tables of smallpox mortality in proportion to population (b)-calculated on the census returns of 1871-it is abundantly plain that this, in common with other epidemic diseases, chiefly prevails in crowded and dirty towns, the presence of superabundant moisture increasing its force; and probably, that the mixture of salt with filthy fresh water supplies an additional aggravation in seaports at river mouths. (c) A large number of inland and clean towns on the coast, as well as inland watering places, depending on free communication and reception of visitors from all parts, at all times, afford ample proof that such were able to bear the presence of sporadic cases- either inoculated, as alleged by some, under the name of vaccination, or imported, as alleged by others- without any spreading of the disease. At all events, it must be admitted that by these statistics we have demonstrative proof that vaccination tion cannot either prevent or mitigate smallpox. How far the general mortality from all causes is increased by vaccination, as alleged, can never be 198   [October 15, 1872. Rese no 29" atau as a known; or at least until the practice-after having thus proved abortive for the object for which it was introduced-shall have been, lke its forerunner, inoculation proper, for a long period discontinued before the light of sanitary science. T. Baker. Kingseote, Wokingham, Aug. 30, 1872. Tables showing rate of smallpox Mortality (1870-1-2) per 10,000 of population, 1871, in the principal districts (Z), having 50,000 inhabitants and upwards, including also any of less population where the epidemic has been severely prevalent: four heaviest quarters in each. 1.-INLAND Towns. +Northampton ...... 84:5 | Burton-on-Trent... 9°0 had weltty. ...... 0.0.3 79°4 Manchester ......... 8:7 Wouek land. 2s <dee ss CO*7 dl VOMECOB Go ccmtosen ct SrA 5) Gaile 8 A eccesaaee 61% INANE WAC 5 oe ccostole nies s 7°8 CONERUCY. ce cncenasnt 50°8 GIG oo 5ssdcces:bs 1p +Wolverhampton ... 48°1 BONO cea acts Gee 74 (5 qrs.) WiarwiCk 2.0, tae GD HMerthyr vas. .t. Hoo | + Warrington 0222). 7°0 TAPUNLEY sivccts so 3 ove 43°2 | +Birmingham and (chiefly 1) A Stem ee, OE 6°8 +Pontypridd ......... 420° | POldhami coe 6°4 Nottingham......... 39°8 Chorltom: 002.46. 6:0 Meowall s.ceusewte, BOP. gh EN Ol Kg H.cuc cote beee oo (2 qrs.) HP CUPER cn Glades estes d8 +Shefield =....:+- J. 38°] IQUN@STON s.005 04 ois 57 TOMUOU as pascctinetiree oon 35°3 Ve oe ist. 5°6 +Ulverston ......--..+- 32°7 +Dert i Fanaa as in 5°4 +Stourbridge ......... 29°6 POMZOUWOO Jaz) sis ees Spl +Lisicester <.......-.-. 23 °4 cS 790 | a a 5°0 +Rotherham ......... 28°0 Wolstanton ......... 4°] Guisborough ...... POG |) -FBurnley hy... 4:0 (6 qrs.) Rochdale .....0....5. 3°8 *+West Ham ......... Ba: 5 ol pdmeo dans... 3°8 5 qrs.) | tWest Bromwich ... 3°5 fF Bashords en ccsedessents 23°9 PRAIA je. Sess. Mark 3°5 a CEN EES 6(2) 10 Benes poe 20°6 A. Dewsbury 3: v.cdevcne B74 PUCSCOiL creo dion 20°4 | +King's Norton ...... 3°0 SallOLd " crskaclyas sf. 1976-1. FRARTONG | oc scctiise coe ie, Stoke-on-Trent ... 16°7 LOCK DOLD 65 ccscnen oe lees 9 qrs. ) Huddersfield ...... 1°3 ¢Chesterfield ......... 16°3 Bury (Lanoashire) 0°9 Redrathy 2.055 ".5-05 Sa Haslingden ......... 0°9 ISPCIOLE 5. ve 5s as 15°1 Macclesfield ...2....5. 0°8 * OTMskiTk 4.0.0 405. 13°8 PLOSOW Gelik cesses. 0°7 Leeds (5 Qrs:) 2... 12-7 Ashton-under-Lyne 0-6 Barton-on-Irwell... 10°3 Blackbur. i.ccns 0°3 Croydon dies dukes 9.6 : 2.-Ditto-Ports aT River MouTuHs. *Great Grimsby...... 95°0 TAAL VOOEG sei saiadisns see 38°1 *Sunderland ......... 87° Stoke Damerel...... of *South Shields ...... 82°5 Plymouth... s.2..3 0s 36°] PSHOCLOLG 2h cceseessee 67°4 Iotverpool .o5202.-23: 35°8 Southampton ...... 63°0 Malmowiin, yi sews. 84°7 Neweastle-on-Tyne 59°0 | fScarborough ......... 33°9 + DOMEE Riser 52085 67:9) |; Rortsmonthas 4.5.4. 33°8 *Dleelliys .cces...00- 55°6 | fHast Stonehouse ... 29°5 (last qr. 70) Yarmouth: s.tcic 27°6 *Gateshead ...........- 52° Alverstoke,Gosport 23°4 Tynemouth ........- BOL dh. "SW AUNEO Ros, a5 orwper los Sa Neath ..cessaceennet 38°53 (6 qrs.) Ports AT RIvER Moutus (continued). Weymouth ......... 22°F Bormhata .........00. 9-0 (2 qrs.) | tWhitehaven ......... 7°6 Hull & Sculcoates.. 18°6 Barnstaple 35.2... 6°4 Hartlepool' i, 20 15°7 Birkenhead "2.0... 5 Whitty wpe 11:6 3.-Ditto-Ports ON RIVERS. Norwich" (c)... Og 71 ~Newport (Mon.) ... 19°4 (2 qrs:) "| Chepstow. fos. 4..0.% i° L Durkan. Ae. 59°5 Bristol and Bedr.... 10:0 5 qrs.) ChESteP see 8°4 Bridgewater ......... 41:0 (2 qrs.) Bridports wsniaras. 35°38 King's daynim. 42262. 8°2 * SO CRON (iam "26k 20" 9 Medway (Sheerness) 7°1 TADS chien ane- eave Zot |, HOar Gade oo; coven "8. sheers 6°3 POOGOM (Frc, eck: 23°8 Gravesend .c.60...a.c0 ol Hackney gave... 32°3 D OUaVES Fo 5.0 doe, ded 4-0) Shoreditch 42°2 Sheppey (Chatham) : as Bethnal-green. Al9- 4.--Coast WATERING PLACES. CROMMOt wirtecs. secoe d)<9 Ramsgate 20... ys * Brighton... jects Lia ELODWECD - arta, pidoe. pees Cast qr. 70) Newton Abbot Holywell (see Mold) 10°2 (Teignmouth and WISIMOMUD 4.2. g0cscnees 9:3 Torquay y(tm) ste sg Elavrolase. tacks Fo% Weuy. cette eae 5 iad) Newhaven 'sora eme 5°2 Potkestone(r) 22 <>. eS isle of Wight: ....): 3°6 Worthington......... 0°9 Haverfordwest...... 2°9 Margate sive. 0°7 Commary. . Lint e5%.3: ate Deal nwyh c9e 0-7 Barmouth ............ 2°4 Anglesea, ....//0.66 0°6 Eastbourne ......... 2°3 Pembroke "cx: 0°6 Workington soi. .edn. a1 Bangor gk Gex..oded 0°5 5.-INLAND WATERING PLACES. Matlock... A. 5°6 Wat ath ise. ee O° Tunbridge Wells... 2°8 Leamington ......... 0-0 Cheltenham ...).:... 0°4 Buxton LuciKKevs.< 0°0 Harly outbreaks marked * Later outbreaks marked + (a) Northampton has suffered the highest smallpox mortality of any inland town. In that place, not particularly clean, perhaps, much opposition to vaccination was felt. In the middle of January last (the smallpox deaths in the two previous quarters having been 47 and 9 respectively), 120 vaccination summonses were disposed of in one day. The people being chiefly working shoemakers, were too poor to pay repeated fines, and therefore succumbed to the pressure. The smallpox deaths during the current quarter reached 157, andin the next quarter 216. The same results have followed similar action in other places. (b) V.B.-For the sake of uniformity of comparison the 4 quarters of highest mortality have been selected in each case -i.é., from the last of 1870 to the second of 1872. (c) In like manner Leith, and especially Dundee, have suffered most in Scotland; Dublin, Belfast, and Cork, it is believed, in Ireland; the Hague, and Rotterdam, probably even more than Berlin, the former returns from which last place are still withheld, because communications were impeded '' during the war !" (d) The Rate in Hackney was sa Shoreditch 9 Bethnal Green 82°3 41°2 41°9 (a) V.B.- There are 600 Superintendent-Registrars' Districts in England and Wales, reckoning the Metropolis as one. during the eighteen months ended 80th June, 1872. Out of these, 61 only had no deaths from smallpox October 15, 1872.]  . 199 Protection at Fault Again. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-You can make what use you please of the following facts, so that they assist our cause. I can give names if required.-Yours truly, Veritas. Barnstaple, Sep. 26, 1872. A few weeks ago a friend of mine had his child vaccinated, the doctor saying that the operation would protect the child from the direful disease- smallpox. It certainly has protected the child, but scarcely in the way he anticipated. During the night a very thick heavy rash came out all over the poor child's body, and the doctor was sent for as soon as daylight came. He said it was "all right, it is only the vaccination rash, the child will be safe from smallpox after this.' His attendance on the child continued for some days, but it gradually got worse, and his efforts to save its life were vain. It died in a dreadful condition. Now, sir, where was the protection spoken of ? Did the doctor refer to that of death ? Another case has recently come under my notice, which shows how valueless is the '' protection'' so confidently promised. I met a young person whom I knew to have been prevented from attending to her usual business by an attack of serious illness. I asked her of what nature the malady had been. She replied-* It wassmallpox." 'Ah, you should have been vaccinated," 1 said, wishing to find out if she had been or not. Her answer was-" Well, sir, to tell you the truth, I have been vaccinated three times, and the third time was abouta fortnight before I was seized with the smallpox."' The Mistakes of Jennerism. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-l. The immortal Jenner found that vaccination was a preventive against smallpox.-The People of England find it is not. ; 2. The doctors then found that re-vaccination every seven years was a preventive against smallpox .-The English people find it is not. 3. The doctors then found that vaccination lightened the attacks of smallpox.-The English people find it does not. 4. The doctors then found that re-vaccination every seven years lightened the attacks of smallpox .-The English people find it does not. 5. The Irish journals of 1871 found that vaccination tion ''stamped smallpox out of Ivreland.'"'-The Irish people of 1872 find it did not. 6. The doctors found that many loathsome diseases are propagated by vaccination.-The people of the United Kingdom find the same. It is cowardlike and tyrannical to insist only on compulsory -vaccination when the 'best' medical opinion says the virtue is 7¢-vaccination. A Greater than the doctors said, before vaccination was thought of-" They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick." This is true--Yours truly, For Liberty. Cork, Sept. 24, 1872. Death, not Life. Some time ago a correspondent of the Standard startled us by relating a circumstance which transpired at a workhouse - where, "Tive and Let Live" did not say, and in the interest of one man it was certainly an act of kindness to keep the secret to himself, and that man is said to be a Poor Law-Medical Officer. The writer, who passes under the nom-de-plume "Jive and Let Live," was having a private chat with ''some 0' th' paupers," when he was told that '"'one on'em had been ill with a fever; and so one day, when he was getting better, and was very weak, doctor comes, and he says to doctor-' Doctor, if I could just have something to strengthen me a bit, I should do.'" Doctor tees Man, you came here to die, not to Lye.. _ Asa rule, Union surgeons have no pleasant life of it, they soon get harsh and irritable; but if they do not like their profession, and still less the class amongst whom they labour, they should seek some other and more congenial occupation. We have frequently pitied the pauper when_his health has failed, and he has had to submit to be snubbed by his doctor-(a thing by no means of rare occurrence)-and to swallow a potion that would have poisoned a brown bear! A consumptive pauper once showed us a_bottle of 'cod liver oil," saying, '' Whenever I take it I am sick, and instead of doing me good, it nearly kills me." The oil was ''red rancid." Our only wish was that we had the strength of Anath the son of Shamgar, for we would have stood by till the Doctor had swallowed the remainder of the oil that was left in the bottle. ''Man, you come here to die, not to live!" The vaccinator tells the same story to each child as it comes into the world. '' Baby,, you come here to die, not to live!" and he takes it by the arm, abrades the skin, and rubs into its pure blood the essence of a poison more to be dreaded than that of Circe's empoisoned cup. They, like Othello when he had slain Desdemona, he apologises to his conscience, saying- '"T kiss'd thee before I kill'd thee!" 200   [October 15, 1872. October 15th, 1872. Dr. Simon, F'.R.S., the medical officer to the Privy Council, said, on Tuesday, the 28th March, 1871, before the Select Committee of the House of Commons, that ''in the absence of vaccination smallpox was the most fatal and contagious of all diseases, and it was no less fatal now than it was a hundred years ago." What unutterable trash! It is evidence of a lost cause when reason throws up the gloves to fear, and asks the people to fall down and worship this unknown god. Dr. Simon is conscious enough that the sentiment, like the breath which utters it, is as deceitful and false as the sea. The moment inoculation was discontinued in 1798, smallpox mortality declined. It is conceded that from 1800 to 1841 the average deaths from smallpox were about 65,000 per annum; since 1841 to 1869, the deaths have averaged 3,785 per annum; but if we could include the mortality from smallpox for the three years 1870-1-2, the average deaths would be about equal to those during the first-named period. It must not be forgotten that on finding that the practice of inoculation was the accursed thing which kept up the smallpox mortality, the people still discredited the fact, and would not relinquish the practice of submitting their children to the lancet of the inoculator, and that even up to 1840 the Poor Law Commissioners complained that the practice of inoculation'was secretly carried on, and there is ample evidence of its being done under the sanction and adyice of the members of the medical profession, and even to this day there are practitioners who have not yet got the better of their early prejudices, and if they dared would inoculate instead of vaccinate; and to the above circumstance-that of creating the smallpox by inoculation, and to that only-was the smallpox mortality kept up to its average of 5,000 deaths from 1800 to 1841. It is important to bear this in mind, and to attach to it that weight and prominence which it demands: and we say, therefore, there has been no decrease whatever in the deaths from smallpox during - the present century, and particularly since the time when vaccination had a fair start. Vaccination as a practice was not in a position to influence the death-rate from smallpox to any great extent, favourably or prejudicially, until the year 1841, when it was taken under the auspices of the State. Prior to this date - vaccination was confined within a limited area, principally charity vaccination; and whoever casts his eye down the figures in the Registrar- General's returns, setting forth the mortality from smallpox from the year 1841, will see that there is no progressiveness in its course suggesting the idea that the smallpox death-rate declines in the wverse ratto to the vaccination rate. There are no figures extant that will support such an assertion. On the other hand, we who disbelieve in vaccination can show from official returns- our enemies themselves being witnesses-that since the introduction of vaccination certain diseases, tabulated as ''death-causes," have gradually increased in virulence, such as diarrhoea, syphilis, scrofula, tabes mesenterica, bronchitis, atrophy, and debility; and that many other diseases, such as measles, scarlatina, croup, whooping-cough, typhus, phthisis, hydrocephalus, convulsions, and pneumonia, are as fatal now as they were thirty years ago, notwithstanding all the stupendous works which have been carried out in the drainage and sewerage, and the water supplies in connection with all our large towns, and in the improved dwellings, the better food, clothing, and habits of the people. For all these last named and fatal diseases to be stationary means progression, and a progression as clear and distinct as if the mortality read as the figures do in the first mentioned diseases. We do not doubt the conclusion that vaccination is one of the principal causes in maintaining the high death-rate of the above named diseases, and so long as the practice continues we shall be frustrated in our October 18, 1879.}  . 201 Beste éfforts to reduce the disease-rate and the deathrate of the nation. It may be suggested that the above arguments are not so forcible, inasmuch as of late years the vaccination rate has kept at an average of 70 per cent., or thereabouts, on the birth rate; but it must be remembered that the steady pace of the increase is to be accounted for by observing that there is in arm-to-arm vaccination an admixture of hereditary and other diseases, more or less futal, and at greater or less intervals, which in their development and growth affect the death-rate to a | corresponding degree; sothat whilst the vaccination rate 1s uniformly at a certain per centaye, the general deuth-rate, for the reason above named, must be ever on the increase ; and this is the fact. But is it true that ''in the absence of vaccination tion smallpox is the most fatal and contagious of all diseases" ? We have shown that in the presence of vaccination-and vaccination nearly as well done as legal enactments can succeed in doing it-there has been practically no diminution in the mortality from smallpox during the present century. As to its fatality, he would be a bold man who should say that smallpox, or any other disease of that type, could be as fatal now as it was a hundred years ago. Dr. Simon is a fool for hazarding such a statement. It only shows that the medical adviser to the Privy Council is prepared to sacrifice truth and reason at the shrine of his foul deity, sooner than he will give it up. His philosophy is exaggerated by his fears, and by his desire to prop up the institution of which he is the prime minister, No disease, if left to itself, could possibly be as fatal now as it was even thirty years (much less a hundred years) ago. Dr. Moore, the accomplished historian of the smallpox disease, states that so lately as the latter end of the last century, a single person under the influence of smallpox, introduced into a district, town, or city, was enough to infect a whole community. The fatal nature of a disease, and even its contagiousness, does not depend so much upon the inherent and intrinsic forces within itself, as upon the degree of susceptibility of those who come within the atmosphere of infection: hence we think no more of going into a house where there are patients in scarlatina or typhus, than we do of walking the streets of the town in which it is our lot to reside. It would be no source of dread to us to have to pass through the wards of a smallpox hospital every day, because we know that our body, and the bodies of our children, are capable of resisting the action of contagious matter in so diluted a form. And justin proportion as our streets are widened and open to free currents of air; as they are paved, sewered, and drained, and the surface kept free from accumulations of filth; as the people learn the value of personal cleanliness, of proper ventilation in their houses, and as they are sober and industrious in their habits, and become subject to those sanitary laws which should rule the healthy conditions of the individual and the community,-in that very degree shall we raise up a permanent barrier to the production or diffusion of any epidemic disease. How is it that the plague which in ages past used to depopulate our cities and towns in a single season, has totally disappeared? Is it simply that plagues and pestilences change in their character and die out of themselves? By no means. It is that our towns are better constructed ; filth is not allowed to accumulate in close proximity to our dwellings; the people are not allowed to drink well-water saturated with the mischievous elements of their own excreta } they are better fed, clothed, and housed: a sea wall composed of these materials, cemented together by all those wise and beneficent sanitary regulations which are the production of the genius of the present age, isa defence and a protection against the waves of such epidemics as may threaten the health of any aggregation of individuals, whether in cities, towns, or villages. Plagues and pestilences only change their character un proportion as a nation changes its habits and subjects tts life to the laws of nature. Build another London as our own London was built in the third, sixth, 'ninth, twelfth, or fifteenth centuries, and the plagues and _ pestilences of those times will return amongst us in all their force and fury. It is sheer nonsense- 20:2 nay, it is criminal-in any man to say that the smallpox could be as fatal now as it was a hundred years ago. Why then does Dr. Simon advance such an absurd proposition ? For this simple reason-that he knows full well he can | support his vaccination dogma with much greater effect by appealing to the fears of the people, than to their reason or judgment. The difference in the mortality from smallpox between this and the last century is not attributable to vaccination, because the mortality began to diminish before vaccination had established itself as a general practice. smallpox declined when inoculation was abandoned; and simultaneously with that event the people began also to discern the value of sanitary measures such as those which have been so often referred to in this journal, and by which, in their wise extension and development, still greater advantages will result to those who may succeed us. smallpox is a type of disease which belongs to the class of those which have preceded it, such as the plagues of the middle ages, and its continuance amongst us up to the present day | is mainly due to the circumstance that the people are compelled ''to have it so;"' firstly, by inoculation from 1722 to 1798, when a hothouse was kept for its production and dissemination; secondly, from 1798 to 1872 by vaccination, where beds are formed for its special growth and diffusion amongst the people. Once give up vaccination, and smallpox will no longer be seen in our midst. The resisting power of the people against the invasion of this disease is not in vaccination, for vaccination is the foster-mother of the smallpox, but is in the enforcement and application of such sanitary | measures as contribute to the general health and surroundings of each individual man. A nation is composed of units. Set up a standard of health for one man im all his relationships to his family and his race, and then subject all to the same regulations, and this nation may wink at epidemics, and smile at the credulity of such as put their faith in the nostrums of Jenner and Jobu Simon! ; The body of a man is not such a wretched structural thing that it must needs submit itself from the cradle to the graye to such   -is not a disease to be dreaded. | October 15, 1872. miserable tinkering as it receives in vaccination and in subsequent treatment from the hands of the medical faculty. Perfect and complete in itself, all that God asks is that man shall ''wash and be clean." This grand sanitary principle . is as effective now as it was some thousands of years ago when Israel lived in tents, and when the leprosy (the zymotic plague of that day) threatened the health-nay, the very life-of the people. Nature holds no secret compact with the sacrilegious virus of the modern physician -a virus which is the concentrated essence of filth and pollution; it is a poison, insinuating and subtle, and of whose powers for evil the doctor knows no more than does the Hsquimaun or the Laplander, for whose inhospitable shores the benefits of a School Board have not yet been projected. Vaccination is blood-poisoning; it is the burglarious insertion into the vital current of the ''lying blood" the essence of a matter which is the product of unsanitary and unhealthy conditions of long standing, which nature, science, and common sense alike teach us to avoid. if the conditions which produce smallpox in man, horsepox in the horse, or cowpox in the cow, are to be condemned, surely the product of such conditions in the concentrated and deadly form of vaccine virus is a thing with which it were a crime in any man to inoculate the blood of his offspring. In the Laocoon the priest of Apollo is represented with his children infolded in the coils of two serpents. Fit emblem, this, of the physician-priest with England's children infolded in the coils of the two serpents, ycleped ''Inoculation"' and "' Vaccination." The nation does not need the "prophylactic" of Jenner-it is an unmitigated evil. The very term, as it is employed by the faculty, is a contradiction and an offence. Our one sole defence against the invasion of epidemics is in sanitation-in cleanliness; and beyond this there is no prophylactic in the universe of God. Vaccination is an imposture, and the people know it. ''Its end draweth nigh." smallpox, in the ordinary course of nature, The contagion of smallpox is a manufactured article-the October = 1872.] sae of bal management, of unsanitary treatment. The hospital is simply a chemical laboratory for the elimination and diffusion of contagious poisons. The faculty have ''no treatment for the smallpox and other eruptive fevers." So says Mr. Marson. Yes, they have-and the sooner they improve on it the better for their patients. If the smallpox were properly treated, there would be, per se, neither contagion, disfigurement, nor death connected with it. Under allopathic management the disorder can do no other than turn out both '' fatal and contagious." smallPox at the Workhouse. Sir,-Will you kindly allow me space for the following correspondence (abridged) :Miles Platting, July 26, 1872. Sir,--You stated on Thursday, July 25, before the Board of Guardians, that out of 55 smallpox cases, 36 were vaccinated, 9 doubtful, and 10 unvaccinated, and one of the doubtful and nine of the unvaccinated died. Will you kindly send me the names and ages of the unvaccinated, and, if possible, their addresses, as I believe there must be a mistake.Yours, J. Wilcockson. Geo. Macdonald, Esq. : Poor-law Offices, July 27, 1872. Sir,-You have correctly quoted the figures I laid before the Board, but I cannot furnish you with the information you ask for, unless called upon officially to do so. Geo. Macedonald, Clerk to the Guardians. Mr. John Wilcockson, Miles Platting. Saltney, July 31. Sir,-I cannot see why you may not furnish the information, unless it is something the officials wish to conceal, if what I ask is not sent to me after this letter, IT intend to ask for it through the local new spapers.Yours, J. Wilcockson. Geo. Macdonald, Esq. Poor-law Offices, Aug. 2, 1872. Sir,I beg to inform you that the return was pcan ed with er eat care ; and would suggest that you make any further application to the Board, as I must decline any more correspondence without their direction. (Signed) Geo. Macdonald. Mr. J. Wilcockson. The following week I wrote to the Board. The result appeared in your Board of Guardians' report in Briday's impresston, refusing the information. I wrote again, giving reasons why i doubted the return being tr ue, The clerk merely recognised my letter, but no further notice was taken of my request. In order to set myself right with the public, I ask you tO kind!y itisert this correspondence. NLy reason for doubting the return was this :-It is a well-known  . fact that nearly all who die of smallpox, unvaccinated, have been "certified unfit" in infancy, because if vaccinated then vaccination would have killed them.-Yours truly, J. Wilcockson. I have a precedent for my doubts :-Leeds return, Ist February to 9th March, 1872, admitted, 74, died 16; 58 vaccinated, 6 died; not known 3, 2 died; not vaccinated 13, and 9 died. This return was disputed by Mr. John Pickering, a town councillor. The figures were examined, and were found to be- admitted, 74; 67 vaccinated, 12 died; 2 not known, 2 died; 5 not vaccinated, 2 died; and these two had been certified "' unfit," being children suffering from hereditary scrofula. The only fair case out of the unvaccinated was that of a man who recovered.- J. W.-Manchester Examiner and Times, Sept. 5. Vaccination Under Difficulties. Those who require a " thorough change," and are even wearied with the monotony of law and order, cannot do better than visit Foula, an island about three miles in length by a mile and a-half in breadth, attached to the parish of Walls, which is the most westerly land in Shetland, but separated from it by some 20 miles of ocean. Foula is described by the John 0 Groat Journal as a "lofty isolated island;'' and. from the account given of a recent visit paid to it by the inspector of the poor of Walls, accompanied by the medical officer, for the purpose of putting in force the Vaccination Act, there can be no doubt of its "loftiness.' The sturdy islanders, although stringent notices were served upon them threatening them with all the penalties imposed by Act 26 and 27 Vict., refused, with but very few exceptions, to bring their children up for vaccination. An Englishman who happened to be on the island, having been consulted by the island chief as to whether it were possible that such a law was in existence, gave it as his opinion that the law did exist, but said that from his experience in England nothing was paid for vaccination. This opinion spread like wildfire ; the matrons of the island collected: and addressed inspector, registrar, and medical officer, as robbing swindlers, in every choice epithet which the Shetland dialect can produce, for seeking half a crown for "' scartling (scratching) their bairns," when the Queen had ordered them to do it for nothing. The wretched officials confess they were never so hard put to it in their lives, and were thankful that the brawny arms of the furies, which were brandished close to their noses, were not used in ducking them in the Loch of Ivrafadna. They will not, they say, go again to Foula, for Registrar-General or Board of Supervision, 204   though smallpox should only leave three on the island, as it did 100 years ago, unless they have an escort of the royal-navy reserve from Lerwick. In the meantime, the islanders are preparing for a visit from the 'dogman," alias the supervisor, whose notices a boat inadvertently took in under the impression that they were simply a bundle of tracts sent by a revival preacher who had converted the island in two sermons. The only person who minds these notices, or who has ever paid the dog-tax, is the teacher. His misconduct, however, has met with a just reward, for the islanders have for two years withdrawn their children from his school, and sent them to an ''anti-dogman." They now express their intention, when the '"dogman" comes, of hiding their dogs at the back of the Kame, the highest peak in Foula, whose cliffs rise 1,150 feet sheer out of the sea. Perhaps Mr. Lowe, who is cruising somewhere in the neighbourhood, will take upon himself the duty of "dogman," and collect the tax at Foula.- Pali Mall Gazette. Bad Effects of Vaccination. By J. H. Nankivell, Esq., York. ''Nathan J., aged 5 months. Respecting this child, the mother's tale was in truth a dismal one and piteous. 'It was as fine and healthy and clean-skinned a baby as ever was seen before the vaccination, but very soon after the operation it began to break out, and now is in a dreadful state.' The state is briefly this:- The scalp, ears, face, groins, and legs, are the parts most grievously affected with pustulations, and (worse still) there is otorrhcea." After describing the treatment, and recording thesteady improvement of the patient, the writer continues-" Pari passu, with the subsidence of the morbid action in the skin, was the subsidence of several absorbent glands in the neck, which had threatened suppuration. The otorrhoea also disappeared, and the worthy dame left with the conviction that it was 'all right' with the bairn. -WN.B. Ido not know any subject in medicine which more urgently demands investigation than this cowpox cum cow-poison.question. It is mere folly to pooh-pooh the horror in which vaccination is held by a large party in this country; and it will be the disgrace of our profession if some means are not discovered of rendering vaccine lymph inocuous."- Homeopathic World, Sept. 2, 1872. [October 15, 1872. Hard Facts.-In a letter to the Leigh Times of August 10, Mr. Wilcockson, of Miles Platting, has strung together a few awkward facts concerning the smallpox Mortality in Ireland and Ssotland. Messrs. Simon and Seaton have for a long time pointed to those two countries as instances of - complete vaccination giving a complete security against smallpox. He says:-" While there is no evidence to prove that vaccination ever did or ever can mitigate or prevent smallpox, there isindisputablo evidence that the insertion of vaccine matter has maimed, ruined, and killed millions, since the invention of the filthy practice. The Lancet, Feb. 11, 1871, page 216, says :-' The vaccination arrangements in Ireland have proved eminently successful in stamping out smallpox.' In the same number, page 214, this statement is flatly contradicted. It states-' In consequence of the prevalence of this disease, five wards have been fitted up in Belfast for the reception and treatment of smallpox patients.' The Weekly Dispatch of Oct. 29, 'states that 'smallpox was rapidly increasing in Dublin,' and of November 26 says-'smallpox has become lamentably rife in Dublin." The Lancet, December 2, informs us that 'smallpox is rapidly increasing in Ireland.' Mr. Simon estimates the annual mortality from smallpox before the introduction of vaccination at 2,500. Last year, according to the Registrar-General, there died in England alone no less than 22,907 persons. According to Rees' Cyclopedia, smallpox fatalities before vaccination were 18 per cent. According to that great authority, Dr. Marson, under the vaccination acts the mortality is 19 per cent. The Lancet of January 21, 1871, informs us that 'four-fifths of the smallpox cases are to be found amongst the vaccinated.' Dr. Wood stated before the vaccination committee 'that there were very few unvaccinated persons in Scotland, and there had been no epidemic since the Compulsory Vaccination Ac was passed in 1863.' The Lancet of January 20, 1872, however, informs us that 'the deaths from smallpox last month constituted 11:4 per cent. of the total mortality of the towns in Scotland.' Again, February 17, we read -'smallpox continues to increase, the fatal cases having risen to 14.5 per cent. of the gross mortality" 'Leigh, Dundee, Kdinburgh, Perth, and Aberdeen, are suffering severely from the epidemic.' In Edinburgh it has been three times more fatal than in London. The Pall Malt Gazette, of May 24, 1871, says-Prussia is the country where re-vaccination is most generally practised. Cases of smallpox are very rare.' A few weeks later, the mortality in Berlin was three times greater than in London." Oetober 15, 1872.]  . 205 Chinese Medicines.-The San Francisco Bulletin says:-The ingredients of a witch's cauldron, as described by the poet, could not have been more repulsively .disgusting than are the articles and compounds shipped to the Chinese physicians of this city from their native country, and used as medicines here. There seems to be just at the present time an extra demand for a venomous serpent closely resembling the rattlesnake, of which hundreds are _received constantly. A Customhouse official brought a specimen of these cheerful-looking creatures to this office yesterday: a coiled snake about four feet long, fanged, and with hideous headscales like a crest. How these animals are taken by patients of Chinese doctors is not known. One would be a fair dose if disguised in a coating of sugar. They may be taken in sections three times a-day, as they are dessicated, or they may be boiled down or pulverised, and taken in powders or rolled into pills. Lizards are in nearly as great demand as the snakes. These also are dried and sent over in packages, together with hundreds of other loathsome things, all of which are consigned to the Chinese physicians, and used by them in their practice.- British Medical Journal. Vaccination in India. - There is a calf in Bombay-or, perhaps, under the circumstances, it would be more correct to say that at the date of the despatch of the last mail there was a calf in Bombay -~-which enjoys unusual facilities for observing the varied immediate effects of vaccination upon the general public. The calf in question is attached to the vaccination department of the Jamsetjee Tlospital, and in an account given by the Bombay Gazette of a visit to the establishment, it is incidentally mentioned that the animal lay upon a bench in -the centre of a crowd of patients. It was extended to full length by three police sepoys, one of whom knelt upon its head, another steadied its body, and the third held the legs apart. 'Its body, which was shaven clean, was covered with pustules, which were visited every second or two by a pair of tweezers, and the lymph they contained was squirted on to the probing instrument wielded by the vaccinator, Mr. Ananta Chundroba, who speedily transferred it to some of the bare arms that presented themselves on every side." It is added that " the calf writhed now and then, in spite of the exertions of the sepoys;" but it is probable that that was the way it had of expressing its satisfaction at the prominent position thus assigned to it, in connection with one of the most important and humane exercises of the medical art. For its age and position in the animal world, the calf is, indeed, specially distinguished by mankind. It isthe only animal we bleed to death by way of preparation for the table; and of course none other would be suitable for such an operation as that daily performed by Mr. Ananta Chundroba, of Bombay. Auckland.-Mr. N. Kilburn, jun., was charged by Mr. Jopling, registrar, with refusing to vaccinate his child in accordance with the statute. Defendant pleaded that the operation was indefensible either in principle or practice. There had been above 22,000 deaths from smallpox last year, and yet Dr. Simon, the medical officer of the Privy Council, had stated before a committee of the House of Commons that 974 per cent. of the population were vaccinated, proving at any rate that vaccination would not prevent smallpox mortality. The only way to stop smallpox was by observing the laws of health, by having plenty of fresh air, good food, cleanliness of body and habitations. Defendant also pleaded the unsettled state of the law on the subject, both medical and parliamentary opinion being at variance. Very many 'medical men were strongly opposed to the compulsory law. The magistrates observed that they had no option in the matter, the law being compulsory.-Fined 5/and costs,-Awuchland Chronicle, Sept. 20. National Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League. -On Wednesday (28th) the annual meeting of the members of the Derby Branch of the National Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League was held in the large vestry of the Gospel Hall, Derby. The report, which was read by the hon. secretary, Mr. Fearn, showed that the subscriptions received during the year had not only met current expenses, which were very heavy, but the debt left on from last year had been reduced materially, Officers and committee were elected for the ensuing year. It was decided to have public meetings at least once a quarter; this step being rendered necessary by the unfairness of some portion of the local press. The members agreed to secure the services of a London barrister for general reference and advice. smallPox and Typhus at Newcastle.-Nine cases are reported by the Lancet of smallpox after revaccination, with one death. It is to be remembered that seven were "not to be regarded as proper re-vaccinations," as now (we are told) all primary vaccinations are useless. Dr. Bayard would tell us not to be surprised that while the 7e¢vaccinated nurses escaped smallpox, ''shortly after the return of the fever which had been absent for several months, three nurses were struck down with typhus within a week, and a fourth fell a victim to the same disease a month later. Whether is smallpox, or a predisposition to typhus, to be preferred? and which are the strongest nurses, the unvaccinated or the vaccinated P Nurses and their Immunity from smallPox. -Mr. Frank Thorpe Porter, in the Medical Press and Circular for March 27, 1872, has the following caustic rebuke against the re-vaccinator :-" With reference to re-vaccination, I have no faith in it. Not one of the 36 attendants of the South Dublin Union Sheds has taken smallpox. Only 7 of the number were re-vaccinated; and as the remaining 29 enjoy the same immunity, wherein is the necessity for the operation? I have known gouty inflammative abscess of the breast and angiolencitis to result from the operation. I cannot, in the face of such facts, approve of it; and, moreoyer, the sense of the profession is against it," 206   [October 15, 1872. we Public Meeting at Gainsborough. Anti-vaccination. -A meeting on this question was held in the lecture room of the Temperance Hall, Gainsborough, last Tuesday evening. Mr. Maples, who was voted' to the chair, opened the meeting with a few remarks on his own experiences of the question, stating that he had no faith in vaccination as a protection against the smallpox, and that he was of a decided opinion that the compulsory vaccination laws were a sore grievance, and ought to be at once repealed.-Mr. G. Andrew, of Willoughton, then addressed the meeting at considerable length, on the inutility of vaccination as a protection, and the evil effects that very frequently attend its practice. He stated that from 1796 to 1829, when there were no enactments to enforce vaccination, there was no smallpox; but as soon as the practice was forced upon the people, smallpox began to increase, and continued to do so until 1863, when, according to Mr. Marson's statement, no less than 84 per cent. of the patients admitted into the smallpox hospital, London, had been vaccinated. He also quoted the statistics of Dr. Pearce, as given in his evidence before the Vaccination Committee, showing that vaccination appeared to be a propagation of smallpox instead of a protection. The Emperor of the French had furnished them with a startling fact. In one department in France the mortality from smallpox was ten among the vaccinated, to one among the unvaccinated. Dr. Ducharme, medical officer of the French army, performed re-vaccination on one of the regiments, in 1867, and in the year following an epidemic of smallpox broke out among the men, in a highly-confluent form, making many victims ; while in another regiment in the same barracks, similarly situated in every respect, but on whom no vaccination had been performed, not a single case of smallpox existed. The speaker next referred to the epidemic in England, stating that last year no less than 112,000 persons suffered from this disease, and 22,907 died, four-fifths of whom, it was said, were vaccinated. How, then, could it be said that vaccination was a protection? Surely the whole affair was a perfect sham from beginning to end! He then earnestly appealed to the audience to join them in the battle for medical freedom ; and sat down amid applause.-Mr. T. Drust, Gainsborough, referred to Dr. Collins, of St. Pancras, London, who was a public vaccinator for many years, but who now had given up the practice in utter disgust, as being useless and injurious, and would not now vaccinate his own children, nor anyone else. There were several such gentlemen, whose children were unvaccinated, yet the law did not bear upon them, while poorer people had to become martyrs to the law. He then asked if vaccination is a protection against smallpox, why does it not also protect against every other form o fever ? That it was no protection against the forme they had ample proof in their own town, many o those who had suffered from the disease having been vaccinated. But vaccination was not only no protection' against smallpox, but it was a prolific: propagator of other diseases. Bronchitis, phthisis, and scarlet and typhoid fever had alarmingly increased with the enforcement of vaccination. He 2 also described one case of injury caused by vaccination tion, in which the person so affected was covered all over by a filthy eruption, being a mass of corruption from head to foot. He then reverted to the report of the many surgeons, &c., to whom Mr. Simon had applied for information respecting the transmission of syphilis by vaccination, saying that the report of one was too truthful for Mr. Simon, for he did not think good to publish it. But it was the habit of some gentlemen to keep back evidence that was likely to controvert their own theory. Mr. Pickering, member of the Town Council, Leeds, hid clearly shown that to be the casein his: recent investigation into the returns for Leeds. He had found some of the cases of smallpox that were returned as unvaccinated had been duly protected, while others were (as stated by a medical certificate) not fitting subjects for vaccination. He concluded by referring to the enormous expense of vaccination, and recommended | this part of the question to the consideration of the ratepayers of Gainsborough.-The Chairman asked if any one in the room wished to ask the speaker any questions; but as none were put, the meeting terminated by a vote of thanks to the Chairman.-We understand that meetings are to be held fortnightly or monthly, in the same room.-Lincoli Gazette, Aug. 24. - Vaceination Prosecutions. Shields. Mr. Mitchell Moncrieff, silversmith, Market-place, was summoned by Mr. Thomas Binks, vaccination officer, for having neglected to have his child vaccinated, as required by the Vaccination Act. Mr. Binks stated that in the returns of births there appeared the name of Elizabeth Goudie Moncrieff, born on the 20th September, 1871. The usual notice for vaccination had been given within three months, but up to the present time the child, so far as he knew, remained unvaccinated. Mr. Moncrieff, in reply to his Worship, said he objected to vaccination, on principle. The Mayor said he was very sorry to hear this, as the opinion of a gentleman like Mr. Moncrieff would exercise considerable influence with persons of less intelligence. Personally, he had taken a great deal of trouble in the matter; and he had noticed that the children of poor people who were unvaccinated had suffered a great deal more in the smallpox epidemic than those who had been vaccinated. His own experience was, that in ninety-nine cases out of one hundred those who had fallen victims to smallpox were unvaccinated. For these reasons, he was strongly in favour of vaccination. During the smallpox epidemic, he had had two ay * October 15, 1872.) domestic servants in his service-one vaccinated and the other unvaccinated. Both girls slept in one room; and in nine days the servant who was unvaccinated fell a victim to the disease, while her companion, who had been re-vaccinated, escaped. Mr. Moncrieff, in reply to the clerk, repeated his objection to vaccination on principle, and said he believed the introduction of matter into a healthy body acted prejudicially. Mr. Hall remarked that the fatal cases of smallpox which had occurred during the recent epidemic were an argument in favour of vaccination. The Mayor said he believed that Parliament appeared to be leaning a little more to gentlemen of Mr. Moncrieff's opinions, as they had abolished second and third penalties. The penalty which would be imposed would, therefore, not be vindictively followed up. He did not think Mr. Moncrieff was likely to form unreasonable prejudices, and he was very sorry he was obliged to impose a penalty. Mr. Moncrieff was fined the mitigated penalty of 5s. and costs.-Shields Gazette and Daily Telegraph, Sept. 4. Leeds. At the Leeds Police Court, yesterday, Mr. J. Pickering, a member of the Town Council, and Mr. G. A. Aldred, West-end, were each fined 20s. and costs, for disobeying an order made by the magistrates for the vaccination of their respective chidren. -Leeds Mercury, Sept. 28. Mr. Councillor Pickering and the Vaccination Question.-In our Friday evening's Express we reported that this gentleman was fined 20s. and costs on the morning of that day, for the non-vaccination of his little girl, being the seventh summons and fifth penalty for the same child. On Saturday morning he attended before Mr. Bruce (stipendiary) to make a statement with respect to the case. He said that not being prepared with his defence, he had an interview on Friday morning with Mr. Lampen, the Clerk to the Guardians, and Mr. Holmes, the Vaccination Inspector, and that, after some objections on the part of Mr. Holmes, it was distinctly arranged that an adjournment for a fortnight should be agreed to, and that Mr. Lampen therefore instructed Mr. Holmes to attend before his Worship, and to obtain the concurrence of the Court to that arrangement. Mr. Pickering further stated that'about three o'clock the same day he accidentally learnt that his case had been heard, and that a fine of 20s. and costs had been imposed. He at once went to the Guardians' office for an explanation, and Mr. Lampen informed him that Holmes, on returning from the court, had stated that he applied for an adjournment in due form, and that Mr. Bruce had objected to the adjournment, saying 'the proper place to apply for an adjournment is in this court, and not at the office of the Board of Guardians," and that the case was accordingly disposed of in defendant's absence. He (Mr. Pickering) further said he had given notice by letter to Mr. Lampen of his intention to appear in court, and to make that statement to Mr. Bruce.-Mr. Bruce said that so far as Mr. Holmes's statement was concerned, the very opposite was the case; for the moment Mr. Holmes got into the box, he stated that Mr. Pickering had that morning applied for an adjournment, but that he had objected, and giving as a reason that he (Mr. Pickering) had almost in every case applied for adjournments, and he did not see that he should be treated differently toanybody else. His Worship said that Mr. Holmes having objected, and the defendant not being present, the case was to go on. Under the circumstances represented by Mr. Pickering, he felt himself placed in a somewhat awkward position, and he should certainly like an explanation, and for that _purpose would send across and ask if Mr. Lampen and Mr. Holmes would attend incourt. A messenger was despatched, and in a few minutes Mr. Lampen appeared. His Worship said that Mr. Lampen was no doubt aware of the statement which Mr. Pickering had made in court, and he (Mr. Bruce) was desirous of hearing Mr. Laimpen's version of the interview with regard to the adjournment.-Mr. Lampen said that at the meeting in his office he certainly understood that the adjournment was consented to by all parties. There was some little crossfiring between Mr. Holmes and Mr. Pickering, but in the end the proposed adjournment was agreed to, and Mr. Holmes was instructed to attend before his Worship, and to obtain his concurrence thereto.-Mr. Bruce said: Then Mr. Holmes most signally failed in carrying out such instructions, for the moment he entered that box he informed me of the defendant's request, but said he objected to it altogether. Whereupon the case was heard and adjudicated upon; and he felt he had been totally misled by Mr. Holmes's representations.-Mr. Pickering then asked his Worship if, under such circumstances, he ought to pay the fine imposed.-Mr. Bruce said he thought not, and if Mr. Lampen did not object, he would take upon himself to remit the fine.-Mr. Lampen said, after his Worship's opinion had been thus expressed, he should raise no objections to that course, and that the costs must accordingly be charged to the guardians.-Mr. Pickering then asked if his Worship would repeat the views he had requested Mr. Holmes to convey to the Board of Guardians.- Mr. Bruce said that although the communication he made to Mr. Holmes was of a somewhat private character, yet he did not see why it should not be stated in court, and with that view he would repeat to Mr. Lampen what he had previously said to Mr. Holmes, and he trusted Mr. Lampen would convey his statement to the Board of Guardians. The statement was this :-that with respect to the repeeted prosecution of Mr. Pickering and Mr. Aldred, it was clear to him that the Act was powerless to make them comply with its provisions, and however frequently those proceedings were repeated, practically the result would be the same. He did not for a moment doubt that the gentlemen entertained conscientious convictions 208 The Anti-Vaccinator. {October 15, 1872. against vaccination, and he knew that the Guardians were equally conscientious in trying to enforce the Compulsory clauses of the Act. Still, it was now his opinion, that with respect to the cases before the court that day, the Guardians had convinced the community that they had done all they could, in the extreme measures they had taken, to satisfy the law ; and he thought the time had now come when the Guardians should consider whether it was wise to press the 'cases any further, and if so, to what extent. He did not wish to be misunderstood, nor did he wish to dictate to the Guardians as to what they should do, as whatever they did he was there simply to administer the law, and that he must continue to do.- Mr. Lampen said he would take care that the Guardians should be made acquainted with his Worship's opinion, The parties then left the court.- Leeds Express, Sept. 30. Leeds Board of Guardians and Myr. Pickering.- A meeting of the Leeds Board of Guardians was held yesterday; Mr. Middleton presiding. Mr. Kenworthy made a motion to the effect that Mr. Holmes, vaccination inspector, be called upon to pay 38. 6d., the amount of costs incurred in prosecuting Councillor John Pickering for neglecting to have his children vaccinated, on the ground that he had failed to carry out an arrangement which had been entered into between Mr. Lampen, the clerk, and Mr. Pickering-that the case should be adjourned to a certain day; and had, on the contrary, gone on with the prosecution, and obtained an order against Mr. Pickering. It appeared from the statement of Mr. Lampen, that an agreement in the matter had been entered into, and that to his surprise it had not been carried out by Mr. Holmes, whom he instructed to ask Mr. Bruce for an adjournment, in order, as Mr. Pickering desired, he might have an opportunity of preparing certain statistics in his defence. Mr. Holmes sought to justify his conduct, saying that he had been under the impression that Mr. Bruce deemed it requisite that the defendant should attend and ask for an adjournment. The Board seemed to think, however, that he had not, as he was in duty bound, carried out the instructions of Mr. Lampen, and the Chairman instructed him to do so in future. The resolution of Mr. Kenworthy not being seconded, it fell to the ground, and the subject, so far as Mr. Holmes was concerned, dropped.-The matter having thus been disposed of, Mr. Lampen said, whilst he was before Mr. Bruce for the purpose of informing him as to the arrangement to which he had come with Mr. Pickering, his Worship requested him to convey to the Guardians a question which he respectfully propounded for their consideration. to whether the time had not arrived-seeing that they had vindicated the law with regard to vaccination tion, and it was being so observed by the inhabitants generally-for suspending further action against Mr. Pickering, he having been summoned no fewer than seven times and fined, for not vaccinating his children. Mr. Bruce did not wish to dictate to the It was as ° board; on the contrary, he was desirous of aiding them, so far as he could, in enforcing the law, and he simply made that suggestion.-Mr. G. Smith muved that the order which had been made by the court against Mr. Pickering be enforced. There wasa law, and they ought to carry it out, more especially in the case of Mr. Pickering, who had declared himself . opposed to it, and was a public agitator for its repeal.-Mr. Cornock seconded the motion, considering that the board would be guilty of an extraordinary act if they ceased to enforce compliance with the order.-Mr. Kenworthy was disposed to move a negative resolution, but was informed by the Chairman that it was not necessary, as he could vote against the motion of Mr. Smith, if he thought proper.-Mr. Whiting advised the board to accept the advice of Mr. Bruce. He respected the law, but if there was an unrighteous enactment he should not be a party to its being enforced. Mr. Pickering had shown a very strone conviction in the matter, insomuch that he had been fined more than once, and still expressed his determination not to have his children vaccinated, and he thought they ought to respect that conviction somewhat. He believed, however, that Mr. Pickering was entirely in the wrong.-The Chairman: I may say that Mr. Bruce, as has been stated, does not wish to dictate to the Guardians, but, on the contrary, I am sure he would willingly assist us in every possible way, whatever is our decision in the matter. "He looks at the subject in this light :-as Mr. Whiting has stated, it is not a crime punishable as a crime, but he thinks, seeing that Mr. Pickering has been convicted seven times, the Guardians may fairly consider whether the law has not been sufficiently vindicated; and Itold him I would take the opinion of the Board upon the question.- Mr. Kenworthy thought that they would dono good by carrying the prosecution further against Mr. Pickering, inasmuch as he had declared to him that rather than have his children vaccinated, he would leave the country.-(A Member: Let him leave it, then.) -He (Mr. Kenworthy) thought the law had been fully vindicated in the matter.-Mr. Crabtree : Mr. Pickering had a strong objection to obey the law, and he (the speaker) had strong objections to his children not being vaccinated. Rather than he should not obey the order of the magistrates, he would fine him seventy times seven. It would be a great injustice to let him off, whilst others were prosecuted, more especially as he knew the law, and was an Anti-vaccination Leader.-The motion that Mr. Pickering be compelled to carry out the order of the magistrate, on being put to the vote, was carried, and the subject ended.- Yorkshire Post, Oct. 3. FON osc The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... Do. 12 \ All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. 99 Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . et ee Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.8., F.S.8., F.8.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anéi-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. EP All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 314. New Series. November 1, 1872. [Price One Penny. Contents, en Page Notes on Passing Events ........cesseseeescees 209 Vaccination is a Blood-Poisoner .........+.... 211 Dr. Copland on Blood-Poisoning .......-.+ee 214 Results of Re-Vaccination ...cccscsscccess sees 215 IAGO ale AUbIClES as cis "isiw els'sie/sicle'eleleie'> sielelvielels ce (c) 216 IMfontaliGy RCCULIS) elas "clerc'e'e elo vidie ofe\s'v. ells s'elere 8 219 The Way in which the Poor are Deceived...... 219 Mhe Revaccination ' "Puzzle" ........-..2-0 220 Vaccination Prosecutions: Dewsbury, 213; Gainsborough, Banbury, 221; Keighley, Selby, 222; Wigan, 223. The Question of Compulsory Vaccination...... 223 News, &c.: The Vaccination Act, 212; Loughborough Board of Guardians, 223; The Press and Anti-Vaccination Correspondence, Anti-vaccination at Sunderland, 224. Notes on Passing Events. Only a few days ago a paragraph went the round of all the papers, alleging that 23,469 soldiers perished by smallpox out of the ranks of the armies of France, whilst only 263 Germans perished by the same disease: the excessive mortality amongst the French as against the trifling sacrifice of the Germans, was attributed to the fact that re-vaccination 1s compulsory in the latter country, but not in the former. 'The statistics are said to have been given during the sittings of the Statistical Congress at St. Petersburg. The Vienna Medical Journal, and then the British Medical Journal, re-echoed the news, and after these the Daily News, the Telegraphs, and the Hupresses of every big and little town in the country, copied the paragraph, and joined in singing" the praises of revaccination ! The statement, so far as the numbers are concerned, is open to very grave suspicion as to its accuracy; but as to the allegation that re-vaccination is not practised among the armies of France, why, it is simply and altogether untrue. We publish a letter from Dr. Bayard, of Paris, and he states that the French soldier is compelled, under penalties for disobedience, to submit to the rite. Military regulations in France are as peremptory and rigorous as the laws which coerce the civil population of the German empire. We question if there was a single un-revaccinated soldier in the French camps during the Franco-German war. As to medical statistics, we have long ceased to have any faith in them; and this last discovery will fortify us in saying they are not to be trusted-they are not worth the paper upon which they are written. It is sad to reflect that any body of men can condescend to make representations which admit of easy exposure, and when it must be evident that the motive which underlies the statement is as unworthy as the figures are untrue. The vaccinator will be hunted out of house and home before long. and what new invention his genius, or his necessities, will suggest, is not for us to anticipate. Changeful as the chameleon, it shall be ours to expose the treachery and the hollowness of his disguise. It is an impudent pretence to affirm that revaccination can save where vaccination fails: if vaccination is not enough, re-vaccination will be but a double imposture. * 210   [November 1, 1872 Before the Bench of Magistrates at Gains- | Mr. William Staniland,. foundry operative, appeared in answer to a summons for neglect of vaccination. His answer deserves to be written in letters of gold. 'Two sentences embodied the whole of his objections. Would that the artist of the Graphic had been 'there to give to the world the attitude of the foundry operative, as he delivered himself of his speech -brief, but full of earnest thought! He sard: -<' Gentlemen, I believe it to be my duty, as a father, to do all in my power to protect my child from evil, either mental or physical; and I do not believe in vaccination, either as a preventive against smallpox, or as lessening its severity in those who suffer from it; but, on the contrary, I believe it to be a means of imparting foul diseases to children who would be otherwise healthy. Therefore, I cannot, consistently with my duty to my child, permit it to be vaccinated." Brevity is said to be the soul of wit; in this instance, if was the soul of truth. The. speech is as full of meaning as an egg is full of meat. a >t borough, The foundry operative was fined 10/- and costs: Mr. William Drust informed the Chairman that he attended to pay the fine out of money subscribed for that purpose; and the magnate of the chair interposed, saying :- ''We have nothing to do with that." Have you not, Mr. Oldman? We think it is of the essence of the contract. Does it not show you that there is something more in this agitation than mere surface thought-a depth of feeling which nothing but truth, stern and majestic, could ever evoke? When did error produce advocates like these? Science, the medical science of the time, skulks behind its Acts. of Parliament; pleads for the inquisition and the tortures of the law; holds up between its bony fingers a few wretched statistics; and in its bewilderment shrieks out- Gloze him with figures, misrepresent facts, forbid. all inquiry into our acts: then urge him, and purge him, vilify and scourge him, blister him and bluster him, statistic him and fluster him, - surround and circumvent him, per thousand and per cent. him, and vaccinate, and vaccinate, and vaccinate his child! That done, the vaccinator counts his coins, reckons up his prospective money awards, chuckles in self-satisfaction to reflect how guardians, magistrates, and statesmen stand by him, deceived as they are by his evidence and his nostrum; and he prays that the common 'sense of the nation may pass unheeded, whilst its representatives are, as heretofore, maligned, despised, and persecuted. This is a ''true picture" of medical science in the nineteenth century! After disposing of the above case, another appeared in the person of James Lister, surveyor, Gainsborough, who was strongly opposed to vaccination. The Chairman tauntingly inquired -'*Do you court being a martyr?' Worthy of the occasion, his answer was equally effective. ''T will pay the penalty; but Ido not think I shall ever submit." 20/- and costs. A third and last case during the day, was that of George Mumby, of Willoughton. His wife pleaded conscientious objections, saying further-'" One of my children has suffered from being vaccinated, and they may as well die of smallpox as of vaccination." <A perfectly reasonable conclusion. 20/- and _ costs, as before. In this case, the magistrate, armed with his ''little brief authority,' uttered his 'little'? threat-''In the future, in cases of the same kind, the fine will be doubled." Gainsborough and Willoughton will now know what to expect. The tender mercies of the law are cruel ;-cruel, indeed, when cruelly administered. Neither conscientious convictions, nor preylous injuries (the result of vaccination), can avail to induce the magistrate to temper justice with mercy. The Anti-vaccination agitation has not been behind any previous movement in producing men whose attitude and bearing will rank (and lose nothing by the contrast) with men who in past ages distinguished the country which gave . them birth. That working operatives in every part of the kingdom' should be found day by day im the presence of the magistrates, sub"mitting patiently to fines'and imprisonment for November 1, 1872.]  . 2k t conscience' sake, is one feature in our character, among many others, that exalts the nation in the eyes of the world. No observance or enactment, however antiquated it may be, can maintain its own against protests like those we record in this journal, and which we find in all 'the newspapers of the day. "Vaccination is a Blood-Poisoner." By Jno. Pickering, F.R.G.5. It is clear, however, that the frequent use of the expression, as a leading idea, has robbed it of half its significance. Sentiments which come to be used as party cries, are, by common consent, as it were disassociated from the facts which first brought them into notoriety; and it requires no little vigilance to see that the truth embodied in the thought loses nothing of its importance by the severance. There is no phase of this subject of such terrible import ag that now under review; and, at the same time, I fear there is no feature of the subject so little understood or appreciated. The very notion of blood-poisoning s 'pooh-poohed" in every quarter; and before we ° can get a man to listen to the idea, we have to exhibit an acquaintance with the subject, and to assume an attitude of dogged perseverance and earnestness, which few care to prepare for or to display even in such a cause, and so other and less scientific modes of reasoning are employed. Now, the simple reason wiy people are so incredulous on the subject is that they cannot bring themselves to believe that the thing is possible, they cannot allow the profession to remain under the stigma which a blunder lke that would inevitably bring upon them; and so they shut their eyes, they close their ears, and the poisoning proceeds unquestioned, and the mortality of the people ebbs and flows as the vaccination-rate is high or low in any given year. Let it be clearly understood, then, at the outset, that I publish the doctrine in all its hideous truthfulness, that vaccination means-to poison the blood, to infect the blood with a virus which is charged with disease and death, and that every operation imparts a disease-condition to the subject. 'The vaccination station is ''the cockatrice' den," and the slimy juice inserted into the blood partakes of the same character as that secreted by the asp, the cobra, or the rattlesnake -it is essentially a poison, an animal poison of the worst possible description; and he who inoculates a healthy child with that matter, is either a fool, or a quack. Jenner was both. In treating generally on the action of some of the most deadly animal and vegetable poisons, it may be affirmed that their power is not only intensified by direct inoculation of the ;blood, but that some of them are positively harmless when passed into the mucous membranes. For instance-the poison of the cobra is fatal in a couple of hours, but if taken internally it is perfectly harmless. There are some. . interesting observations on the poison of the viper and the rattlesnake in the Philosophical Transac_ tions, vol. 6, part 3, showing that these creatures. do not traject their poison, and that unless the skin is broken, or an incision made, the virus is innocuous. When bitten, dogs were found to die in a quarter of aiminute; and yctin South Carolina dogs frequently eat! the rattlesnake, and experience nfo ill effects from it, swallowing at a mouthfal the teeth, fangs, and the glands in which the poison is secreted. When a native is bitten, the part is sucked, but woe to him who performs the operation if he happen to have -a wound on his lip or his tongue! The Bosjesthan of Southern Africa tips his arrows with the poison' of the Puff-adder, and yet he manipulates the fluid with his fingers' as' though if were liquid eum. So of the vegetable poisons, the Woorali, the Cotroval or Vao, when injected into the blood, death ensues rapidly; but when introduced into the stomach, the effect is slow, and requires a much larger dose to produce the same result. These facts all tend to show the folly of infecting the blood directly with any poisonous' substance such as that accomplished in vaccination, The practice certainly places us on a par with the Bosjesman, but no higher; for the cruelty of such an art is only equalled by the superstition and ignorance which first projected, and now uphold it. As to the immediate and direct effects of vegetable and animal poisons, various theories are maintained. The poison of the rattlesnake appears to be so instantaneous that dogs infected are convulsed and the limbs paralysed in a moment, and the appearances on dissection show the blood to have thickened to the consistency of cream, the heart and its vessels are filled with turgid blood, and the abdominal viscera are much inflamed. Theaction of the Woorali poison and others of that class are more fatal when introduced into the circulatory system, and death does not seem to depend so much upon any actual change produced upon the blood, as, in the first instance, upon the shock to the inner membrane lining the veins and arteries: This membrane seems to act as an eléctric wire to convey intelligence of the injury which has been inflicted, and'as the news rushes along, the parts traversed, if not destroyed, "are injured'so as to place the life in jeopardy. Poisons are more or less fatal and speedy in their operation, according to the constitution of the person infected, but this applies more particularly when they are introduced into the stomach. Still, 212 regarding the vaccine virus as an animal poison, being a poison secreted by the blood, itis a subject of "common conversation" that children of robust constitution pass through the disease with less present disturbance to general health; whilst ill-conditioned children suffer more, and are easy victims to that abominable rite. 'Men are not snakes." True, but the smallpox secretion which is the base of the vaccine virus, is a poison quite as pungent as that of some of the snake tribe; and experiments with the matter upon the smaller animals produce effects of marvellous correspondence. We cannot measure the direful consequences which must sooner or later supervene after mixing with the "living blood"' of the species the poisonous secretion either from a diseased human being, or from a brute beast. No penalty is too great for nature to exact after submitting our offspring to so reckless and sacrilegious an art, and that the penalty is exacted is too clear when we cast our eyes down the death-rate for a single twelvemonth. After all our ingenuity is spent in bringing together causes of, and contributors to, the death-rate, such as those which have been frequently adverted to in these pages, there yet remains a large residuum of deaths which can only be credited to some grand and potent agent despoiling our homes, and holding solemn carnival day by day, and night by night. That agent-that mighty engine of destruction-is vaccination. In the sacred name of science, under the sanction of the law, with every good intention surrounding the rite, men of all classes under the belief and notion that the demon of Jenner is a guardian angel of no common merit, and in the sight of the living God who made us all, our children are given up to an idolatrous ceremonial, worse, intolerably worse, than the abominations of Moab, and the plague is greater than it was to Israel in the matter of Peor, when their condemnation was burnt in upon the pages of Jewish tradition-" They joined themselves also unto Baal-peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead."' This Basal unto which we have joined ourselves, this dead "sacrifice" of ours, is awfully vengeful. Jenner's dead'"' virus, once inoculated into the veins of a healthy child, becomes a living, moving, active poison, whose deadliness is only limited by conditions or accidents over which the vaccinator can have no possible knowledge or control. The burden of removing this cursed thing from off the face of the earth lies heavily upon my conscience, until the time shall come when public indignation shall pour out its wrath upon the heads of the faculty who patronise and protect the practice. No sensible man, with the evidence of the statistics of the death-rate before him, with the revelations of daily occurrence ag to the fearful diseases communicated in vaccination, and with the still stronger evidence of men of science with regard to the evil of inoculating the blood directly, as is done by the vaccinator, with any foreign matter, animal or vegetable, can possibly come to any other conclusion than that the excessive mortality of which Anti-vaccinators complain is self-inflicted, causeless, and   [November 1, 1872. preventable. From 1722 to 1798, men, women, and children lay prostrate before the medical science of the day, and rich and poor alike inoculated their blood with smallpox matter, pure and simple. The death-rate, on the evidence of friend and foe, was intensified a hundred-fold; and from 1798 to 1872 . the profession, acknowledging the mistake of inoculation, lent themselves to a practice which is different only in this-that the smallpox matter is first passed through the cow, and then that frightful virusation, compounded of disease conditions both from man and beast, is transferred to the healthy tissues of children whom God sent us '' very good ;" and the cumulative death-rate-or more truly the poison-rate-counts its victims as aforetime by tens of thousands per annum, and each soul as it passes away is valued and sold for "thirty pieces" of copper! I dread to reflect upon the retributive justice which an indignant nation shall one day mete out to men who pursue this inhuman traffic- this disgusting trade. In speaking of Hades, Milton describes a deep "lower than the lowest ;' and if, in nature, there is a corpuscular form of life "lower than the lowest," it is that with which the vaccinator inoculates the living blood of our children. Little indeed does he dream of the mischief which attends the operation. very distinct act is a crime against nature; the virus, deadly as the secretion of the Upas tree which thrives in the forests of Java, holds no allegiance to the blood which is the life: it is an enemy admitted inside the "human form divine," a conspirator at once cruel and malignant. _ As to the fearful consequences attending blood inoculation, John Hunter (than whom no greater authority can be quoted) has said-" Any extraneous substance introduced into the blood modifies the vitalised or living fluid. The introduction by inoculation of mineral poisons, or vegetable poisons, is hazardous, and in certain quantities may be destructive; but the introduction of animal products from another living body, be it a man, a cow, or even the ass, is infinitely more pernicious, because allied to it in being vitalised." I challenge the faculty to contradict the opinion of John Hunter, or to show me that his philosophy does not apply to the observance of vaccination. In another part of this Journal will be fourd also the opinions of Dr. Copland on Blood-poisoning. The statements of two physicians, equally eminent in their day, and whose opinions agree in every particular, ought to be sufficient to convince the unprejudiced reader that vaccination is a practice deserving universal reprobation, and that it is, beyond controversy, the most murderous art within the scope of ingenuity, superstition, or ignorance, to devise. Neither the public nor the profession have ever looked vaccination in the face; both have been content to regard it as an admitted fact; and so long as it paid, so long would it have passed current as a friend to mankind; but now, satisfied by patient investigation that the rite is a curse to humanity-a scientific blunder, and a medical fallacy-silence would be a crime. The very instincts of our nature rebel against an operation which is in direct antagonism to the "'common sense" of the nation. In pleading for helpless infants, for our innocent babes, we must feel, if we never felt before, that "thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just." Vaccination is ''the flood that ravages our fields, the curse of our land*." * (c) Nostri fundi calamitas."'-Terence. "Results of Re-Vaccination." It has now passed into a proverb that he who begins by lying, will soon find he must tell twenty more to support the first departure from truth. 'The British Medical Journal has transferred to its columns a paragraph from the Vienna Weekly Medical Journal, showing that whilst the re-vaccinated German army during the late Franco-German war only lost 263 from their ranks by smallpox, the vaccinated French army lost 23,469 from that disease. Then comes the shout of triumph-'" This terrible difference must puzzle the greatest opponents of vaccination." We beg to assure the Wiener Medizin Wochenschrift, and the British Medical Journal too, that the Anti-vaccinators are not so soon puzzled. Will either of these journals answer us a few questions? Ist. How came it to pass that if re-vaccination is the highest form of protection, there should have been 268 soldiers to whom it was no protection? There ought not to have been one fatal case. 2nd. If 23,469 soldiers of the French army perished of smallpox after vaccination, does not that circumstance give the lie direct to the statements that vaccination either protects or mitigates the smallpox? Hence, are we not shut up to the idea that re-vaccination, and not vaccination, is the only remedy left in the hands of the profession? 3rd. Is it not a fact that whilst there is no compulsory re-vaccination in the French army, yet re-vaccination is as rigorously practised as if there were? If so, re-vaccination must share the same fate as vaccination tion, and both observances must appear to us as the most wretched impostures that ever stalked the earth. 4th. Is it not a fact that the recent smallpox epidemic in re-vaccinated Berlin, a city three times less than London, has been three times heavier, both in cases and mortality, than in well-vaccinated London? and if so, why was re-vaccination less protective amongst the civil population in Berlin than amongst the army in the field? 5th. Is not the difference in the mortality in the two armies to be found in this-that the Germans were better protected in their food, clothing, and general sanitary arrangements, than their less fortunate neighbours? The French were sent into the field comparatively unprepared, both in clothing, camp equipage, and in their commissariat department, Under these circumstances, let Miss Nightingale say if there were any wonder why the French should perish from smallpox in much greater numbers than the Germans. To any honest and unprejudiced mind, the explanation lies too near the surface not to be seen at a glance. Let not the medical authorities of Vienna or London think they can steal a march on us on such meagre materials! If vaccination is no protection, how can re-vaccination meet the difficulty? Re-vaccination did not save the civil population of Berlin; and the broad fact stares us in the face that during the late epidemic, in every country where there has been the best vaccination there has been the greatest smallpox mortality ; and we are indignant beyond measure to see the medical mind of the country supporting, by every species of sophistry and fraud, a practice which is, to say the least of it, as heathenish as it is unphilosophical, and opposed to all the dictates of '*common sense.'" Since writing the above paragraph we have received an answer from our correspondent, Dr. Bayard, of Paris, in answer to an inquiry as to whether it is or is not a fact that the French Army, in the Franco-German War, were as well revaccinated as the Germans themselves. The answer is complete, and will be found in another column. With regard to the entire statement there is room for suspicion that it has been written with the object of misleading the public, and of supporting the imposture of re-vaccination, even at the expense of truth. If 23,469 soldiers of the French Army perished of smallpox after vaccination and re-vaccination, need we any greater proof of the statement to which we are committed, that vaccination and revaccination instead of being protective are provocative; in those practices we sow the seed, and in smallpox mortality we do but reap the fruit. Will the Vienna or English journals have the honesty to confess they have published a falsehood? Not they! The paragraph has done its work, and that is all they care for. Miss Florence Nightingale-than whom we can quote no greater authority-in a letter to the editor of this journal, says:-'' Every one who knows anything of public health questions will agree in your views as to the practical unity of epidemics, and their determining causes; and that exemption from all alike must be sought not by any one thing, such as vaccination, but by inquiring into and removing the causes of epidemic susceptibility generally." And with regard to the statistics of the question, Prof. F. W. Newman writes :-"'The medical supporters of vaccination reason soley from statistics, which may be made specially to support anything when they address the uninformed; and they have not a particle of good sense, or common sense, on the ees principles of which we all can judge as well as they."' With Miss Nightingale, we disbelieve in prophylactics like those of Jenner; they are all a sham and 214 animposture. Henceforth we must put our trust in cleanliness and sanitation; not in superstitious mockeries, nor in the witcheries of money and place-hunters like Simon, Seaton, &c., and the whole army of infectors and vaccinators. And, with Professor Newman, we say that in this question of vaccination statistics can never prove that to be a good which is an unmixed eyil in itself. To create disease to protect us from disease, to communicate a special disease artificially in order to save us from contracting that disease in the ordinary way, are the reasonings of an idiot, a knave, ora fool. 'The people of England have got beyond this species of charlatanism; and they who live out of the wicked and the abominable invention of Jenner, will find ere long that their profits and their prophylactics will be destroyed before their faces, and they will be left to discover some other means of obtaining an honest livelihood, than that of sowing diseases broadcast, that they may reap a second harvest out of the suffering and death propagated thereby. It is of no use mincing matters, for when the time comes we must speak out, let the consequences be what they may. The faculty have interests at stake in vaccination-the one immediate, and the other prospective-their general interest is in disease ; but the interest of the people is in health. Which of these two interests shall ultimately prevail, is a mere question of time. If the faculty were wise, they would make a note of this. Dr. Copland on Blood-Poisoning. (Extracts from his Dictionary ef Medicine.) The rapid or direct introduction of vegetable or animal putrid matter, purulent sanics, or animal poisons, into the circulation, generally occasions not only changes in the blood, destroying its property of coagulating, and imparting to it a tendency to quick decomposition, but also most intense disease of the principal organs :(a) The nervous centres are remarkably impressed, giving rise to great prostration of strength, delirium, convulsions, or death, according to the intensity of the cause. (6) The digestive organs are affected by vomiting of morbid, brown, grumous, or other fluids, with purging of sanguincous, dark, putrid, or black matter; or distended with footid gaseous secretions. (c) The respiratory and circulating functions are remarkably deranged-the respiration is quick, difficult, or panting; the action of the heart quick, weak, or fluttering, and the impulso deficient; and _ the pulse, at first full, open, broad, and unusually soft and compressible, soon becomes uncommonly quick, weak, and ultimately small, thready, or fluttering. (@) General disease of all the functions and soft solids, accompanied with speedy death   {November 1, 1872. when the cause is intense; but with the symptoms of adynamic, typhoid, or putrid fever, when acting more slowly or to a less extent, and occasioning sphacelation or gangrene of various parts, gaseous exhalations or secretions, and various serous, sanguineous, or sanious exhalations and infiltrations. The effects upon the fluids and soft solids have . been already mentioned incidentally, and may, indeed, be inferred from what has been stated. These chiefly consist-(a) Of a foetid, decomposed, remarkably morbid, acrid, and dark or unnatural colour of all the secreted fluids. (4) Of diminished cohesion of the tissues generally, but most remarkably of the mucous, cellular, muscular, and glandular parts; the heart is soft and flaccid, the blood dissolved, and the internal surface of the heart and blood vessels tinged of a more or less deep red colour, owing (as M. Trousseaux has fully proved) to the altered state of the blood; the muscles are easily torn; the mucous and cellular tissues are soft and pulpy; all the structures have lost their vital and physical elasticity, and they all undergo decomposition more rapidly than usual. (c) Congestion, infiltration, extravasation, &c., of fluid, dark blood into the parenchyma of. the lungs, liver, kidneys, and into the cellular, mucous, muscular, and other parts, with gangrenous spots, and a foetid odour. Such are the consequences of putrid or morbid matters conveyed into the circulation, and the results, in respect both of the phenomena and of the remote organic lesions, of changes produced by these matters in the constitution of the whole fluids and structures of the body. When these matters are in a less concentrated state, or enter the circulation in a more gradual manner, they will then act ina relatively slower and less intense form, and their effects will more nearly approach those described as consequent upon a diseased state of the blood in malignant fevers. Yet their operation will still retain nearly the same distinctive characters, the Symptoms varying chiefly in degree, but not materially in ind, unless the nature of the cause has also varied. Whether we contemplate, therefore, the character and progress of the pheromena following the infection of the blood from these various sources, or the nature of the lesions which ultimately result, we shall be equally struck by the marked similarity existing between them. See vol.-2., 'p.196. Poisonous substances applied to the skin after the cuticle is removed, or even to a mucous surface, but more particularly to this surface when its epithelium is detached, produce their effects with great rapidity ; the period varying, howeyer, with the situation, the duration of contact, and the nature. and state of the substance. The effects depend upon the nature and intensity of the impression made upon the tissue, upon the sensibility and vasculerity of the part, upon the rapidity and amount of imbibition and absorption, and upon. several other circumstances which will be more fully set forth hereafter. November 1, 1872.)  . 215 When a poison is inserted in a wound, the effects will be nearly co-ordinate with those which result from its application to a surface deprived of its cuticle or epithelium, some variation probably resulting from the nature and situation of the wound, and upon the degree in which the injury may favour the retention, and the situation facilitate the absorption, of the poison. The passage of a poison into a vein, or the injection of it into a vessel, is productive of the most rapid effects, relatively to the operation of the particular agent employed; for not only is a local effect thereby produced, but the poison, being directly carried into the circulation, operates, according to its nature, both upon the blood and vascular system, and upon the nervous centres, and the vital and excreting organs.-WSee vol. ili., p.°3138. The poison having been carried into the circulation, either by the lacteal absorbents, or by the lymphatics, or by the capillaries and veins, according to the seat or part to which it is applied, and the action which it exerts on the constituent tissues, produces ulterior. effects, which are about to be briefly considered, owing to its action-Ist, on the blood itself, in which it mixes, and which it contaminates; 2nd, on the blood vessels and heart; 3rd, on the nervous ganglia and plexuses; 4th, on the spinal chord and the sensory and motory nerves ; and Sth, on the brain and organs of sense. Those poisons which act more or less chemically are most readily imbibed, are absorbed most directly and rapidly, and change not only the physical character, but also the chemical constitution of the blood, as far as we are acquainted with that constitution. They change the colour, and there is reason to suppose that they affect also the organisation of the red globules; they alter or diminish the fibrine, and variously affect the saline and albuminous constituents of the blood. But there are few of those substances which act thus chemically upon the blood, especially alkalies, acids, and numerous neutral salts, that do not also affect the vital condition of this fluid, and change this condition and its chemical constitution, both in relation to each other, and. in connection with the vessels and heart, and with the nervous centres, more particularly the nervous system actuating the circulating apparatus.-See vol. iil., part 1, p. 316. Certain poisons produce a septic action, weakening and dissolving the vital cohesion of tissues, or softening and even liquefying the structures. 'These substances not merely depress the organic nervous energy of the parts with which they come in contact, but they also produce a physical or chemical change in the tissues, contaminating the fluids, and favouring the imbibition and absorption not only of the poison | itself, but of the contaminated fluids of the poisoned part. Animal matters act chiefly in this way, more particularly the poison of serpents, of fish, decomposing or putrid animal substances, the animal poison generated in sausages and preserved or dried meats, the secretions and fluids in disease or after death, especially after malignant and infectious -maladies; and still more especially if any of these be applied to a punctured wound or to an abraded surface. In most instances the local action of these. poisons is evinced by the part being pained, swollen, livid, or otherwise discoloured, soft or bogey, sometimes numbed and changed in temperature, often rapidly passing from a burning heat to coldness, or being cold from the commencement. These changes proceed from the extremities to the trunk, from the periphery to the centre, and extend more or less rapidly, with remarkable sinking of vital power, a very quick or irritable pulse, and manifest indications of contamination of the fluids and soft solids, more especially when the poison has been applied to an external surface or to a wound. When it has been taken into the stomach, distressing nausea, vomiting, anxiety, and feeling of sinking, evidently owing to depression of the organic nervous energy, are then generally observed, with other symptoms varying with the particular poison which has been taken, as cutaneous blotches or eruptions, &c.-WSee vol. iii., part 1, p. 319. Putrid animal matter is productive of injurious effects when taken into the stomach; but these effects are much more serlous when such matter is applied to an abraded surface or to a wound, and more especially if it be injected into a vein. When putrid animal matters or fluids are inoculated or inserted into wounds, or applied to abraded surfaces, extensive local inflammation, of a diffusive or spreading kind, with very low or adynamic fever, is developed, owing to the rapid contamination produced locally, as well as in the circulating fluids, and death takes place unless the mischief be 'early arrested by a very active stimulating antiseptic and tonic treatment.See vol, iii., part 1, p. 403. The poisons which most undoubtedly belong to this class (septic) are chiefly the secretions of snakes and other reptiles, although there is reason to believe that several other secretions, or morbid matters, will produce analogous changes in the healthy body when inoculated with them; that the secretions from smallpox, from plague, from gangrenous sores, from glanders and farcy, from erysipelatous parts, and from sloughing, gangrenous or putrid animal substances, will so contaminate the parts into which they are inserted or inoculated, as to produce either a constitutional disorder specifically the same as that of which it is the product, or a state of local disorganisation, rapidly passing into vital destruction, accompanied by dangerous, and often fatal, constitutional disturbance. The inoculation of smallpox in the Negro constitution produces in many instances (on. some occasions in the majority of cases, in certain circumstances, as I have myself witnessed) a putrid or septic condition, the confluent eruption consisting of a black sanies contained in the softened dermis, which, with the circulating fluids and soft solids, rapidly deliquesce, as it were, into dissolution, before even respiration had ceased, and without any indication of antecedent excitement or unusual reaction. -NSee vol. iii., part 1, p. 434, 216   [November 1, 1872. the Anti-Waccetwator, --November 1st, 1872. Medicine, unlike its twin-brother Surgery, is not a progressive science. So far as the art and practice of medicine is concerned, the patronage and protection of the State is an unmitigated evil. There is more care expended in protecting the corporations from the aggressive attacks of rival systems, and in denouncing them, than there is in extending or utilising the discoveries of modern experience, from whatever source the information may come. The great fault of the age is that our medical men are educated in physic, and not in the simple principles affecting the preservation of health. They are not taught to think for themselves. This idea is enforced by Dr. Farr in his 5th Report, p. 313:-'' The art of preserying health is not yet taught in the medical schools of England; and it is only just to add, that it is not paid for in any shape by the public." The public must know, therefore, that the medical education of their physicians is simply in physic and disease, and not in the higher art of preserving the health of the people. In a sermon preached some time ago to the Rifle Volunteers, Canon Woodford, Vicar of Leeds, made the following remark :-'' How few there are who think!" and to narrow the application of the suggestion still further, he said- "'Nay, is there one man before me who thinks ?" To think requires mental activity and labour, and involyes the power of distinguishing between facts which are so in truth, and those which are only soinseeming. To think necessitates the acquisition of words, and the ability of discriminating as to the fitness and propriety in their use. Words are things. Words are to the thinker what the materials and tools are to the builder. The faculty, as a body, do not think. Let it not be forgotten that our remarks are intended mainly to refer to those who practice physic. The above statement will sound strangely enough to many ears. It is so much easier, in any profession or business pursuit, to walk in the footprints which others have left upon the beach, rather than to survey the country, and propose new landmarks, either for our own guidance or the advantage of those who may succeed us. It may excite a smile here and there to hear that the faculty do not think. Nevertheless, the remark is true. Exceptions there are, we admit, but they are only so rare as to prove the rule. Their knowledge is technical, and embraces symptoms of disease, an acquaintance with the different parts and functions of the body, and the remedies which have been the same for generations back. The student who, haying obtained his diploma, rushes into matrimony and the cares of an establishment, has something else to do than to enter into such a profitless crusade as thinking: his course is mapped out for him; obedience is all that is required, and any departure from the faith of his predecessors brings upon him the punishment of apostacy. If the labour of the handicraft trades had been protected by the State as the profession is, we should yet have seen the hand-loom weayer as busy as ever in his attic; and the carrier and the stage-coach would be the only means of conveyance, as heretofore; whilst the factory, with its complement of insensate labourers, requiring only the help of mind to guide its operations, and the steam-engine and the railway, those two great aids to civilisation and national prosperity,-these would now have been among the yet undiscovered appliances which the resources of nature yield up to the industry and genius of the age. Free trade in commerce, in offering success to fair competition, whether in the departments of agriculture or manufactures, is the best security we have that the thinking power of the people will be developed. It is thus that a nation is saved from the miseries of supineness on the one hand, and on the other hand from being wrecked on the fatal shores of ignorance and indifference. Apply this test to November 1, 1872.] the profession, and the secret is told why it is that medicine, as an art, makes no progress. To give a charter to any class of practitioners, 1s to stultify each member of the corporate body, and to send an agency into the world which has neither the sympathy nor the confidence of the people. Mr. Max Muller, in a speech the other day, said that the course of philosophy was one great battle with mythology. The sanitarian of the present day will soon discover that his warfare will be one continued wresthng against a system of treatment which is marked for destruction, and which is not only useless but absolutely pernicious; he will have to do battle with his own physician! 'The difficulty is enormous; it must be solved; the interests at stake cannot be measured. Practically, the physician says-''If you will not have my physic, you will not have me." Very well, the issue raised must be accepted. Our reply is-' If you will not change your mode of practice, if you will not adopt a treatment which is sanitary, then you shall not have me for a patient." The area of the struggle will thus be narrowed-the one can lve without ''physic," but the other cannot live without his patients. The simplest form in which this great problem can be met, and made to assume a business shape, is this-we must insist upon the faculty standing upon their own merits; they must be freed from the trammels of State protection and State pay ; and secondly, the basis of their charges must be shifted from the principle of being paid for curing disease, to that of being paid for preserving health. A scale of charges must be jointly agreed upon for attendance upon individuals and families, and for the necessary adyice as to the preservation of the lives of both, not only in sickness, but also in health. '' Prevention is better than cure." If the plan here recommended were adopted, the physician would find, for the first time, his true place for usefulness; and the gain to the community would be infinite, both in health, wealth, and happiness. His periodical visits would be hailed with joy in every household, and the public would not defer sending for him until the patient's ailment really  . of threatened the life, as is often the case. Instead, therefore, of having thirty thousand medical men who live upon disease, we should see them transformed into so many officers of health; and men would not think, as they do now, and with too great show of reason, that the cure of disease under the allopathic system is not only protracted, but costly and perilous. The medical profession is a ''noble profession." It ought to be, is admitted; but an art which has been stationary for the last half century, when all other arts have expanded with the growing intelligence of the age, has lost all claim to ''nobility." Dr. Russell Reynolds New System of Medicine registers but a small share of improvement in the treatment of those lethal diseases which are as fatal now as the pestilences or plagues of past epochs. The physician of the present generation must give place to the sanitarian of the next. '* Mene, mene, tekel,' has been inscribed over the dispensary ; and the drug has been found to belong to a past age, when the ''magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers'"' were the pretended healers of the people-an era when civilisation and science were in their infancy. Would to God that an Act of Parlament were passed to-day to prohibit any practitioner from administering a single mineral drug to any human being to the end of time! In the present state of our sanitary knowledge there should be none of this drug physic; it may kill, and frequently does, but it cannot cure. In nine cases out of ten it is as senseless and hurtful to punish the stomach for sins that it knows nothing about, as it would be to take out the right eye to supply a solution to the optic nerve, by way of curing a natural defect of vision. Derangements of the stomach, and other contiguous functions, are often traceable to the medicines which have been taken, and the symptoms have frequently disappeared when the ''physic" has been discontinued. 'To dis-establish and dis-endow the art of medicine, and those who practise it, must be done in pure self-defence, and we must set about it in good earnest. The dead past must bury its dead, and we must busy ourselves with the liying, and how best to conserye their hfe. 218 Are we not told that marvellous advances have been made in the practice of medicine during the last quarter of a century? If so, where is it? Disease and death are victors yet. '"A quarter of a century ago we used to bleed everybody, let the disease assume what phase it pleased, but we have discontinued the practice ; that is an improvement," so says the modern physician. Granted: but in reply we tell you that if you destroy an idol with one hand, you set up wnother in its place; for, instead of bleeding everybody, you vaccinate everybody so it is simply playing at give and take, and we are no better in the end, but worse if worse can be. Acupuncture was practised in China in the remote periods of antiquity, but the quack of those times never armed his needles with a virulent 'poison: that abominable device was left to a nation, to an age, when such a paradox ought to have met with instant rejection; and its continuance in our midst is the most violent contradiction which modern science has to uproot and cast away, lest, like the accursed thing in Korah's camp, the power and vitality of the nation shall be utterly destroyed In many nations, at different epochs, practices which seem to us as though they had been designed with no other object than to carry off the surplus population, have maintained their sway over the people, until a higher state of civilisation, and the milder influences of a nobler faith, have exposed their cruelty and their folly. In one empire human sacrifices have periodically thinned the growing population. continued through a long series of years, ended at last in the extermination of one tribe; whilst the fate of the other, reduced in numbers, and the prey cf more powerful neighbours, eventuated in the final extinction of both. Among another people, the aged and infirm are removed a day's journey into the woods, and there left a prey to wild beasts, orto a lingering death by starvation; a second destroys a certain | proportion of their female children; and a_ third burns the wife when the husband dies. But the worst of all the practices or the cruelties which have been rehearsed in any land, and under Among savage tribes, internecine wars, any rule, civilised or heathen, is to be found in our own country, in the observance of vaccination. for nearly two centuries of time, almost without intermission, has the rite, in one form or another, introduced disease and death into every family, whilst the land has become a huge charnel-house. the blood-poisoning of owr offspring, at a tender age, 1s recommended by the profession, enforced by the legislature; and the neglect of it is punished by jines and imprisonment. Thus does death run riot in a nation and amongst a people where his control should be in greatest check, and his dominion should be disputed at every point. If the people, to a man, could only be brought to see this abomination of Jenner in the light in which the Anti-Vaccinator wisely beholds it, there would not be left a ''vaccination station" with one brick upon another by to-morrow's sunrise. Some may think that we have gone out of our way in making an attack upon the "'system of medicine" now in use by the allopathic faculty. The answer is simple. In dealing with the general question of vaccination, it is a part of our case not only to show that vaccination is not a prophylactic against smallpox , but that it is an infinite source of mischief, disease, and death; and, secondly, that the smallpox, if taken in the natural way, is not a dangerous disease, nor need it be fatal per se in any instance; and that when it is accompanied by serious results, such as disfigurement or death, the fault lay with the treatment, and not with the disorder. How could we show this without impeaching the remedies which the physician employs? That we have gone into particulars which many would have avoided, arises from the view which we, along with others, take of the situation, viz:-that the battle-ground must be transferred from Jenner to the physician and the faculty, who have not the sense to see-and if they have the sense, have not the honesty to confess it-that vaccination is a piece of wickedness which no intelligent surgeon or physician ought to continue for an hour. We wage no war: with individuals, but with a system. It is not that we have any spite or wngenerous feeling to any man whom we may or may not have named to these ~ November i, 1872.] _  . 219 pages, but itis that the menbers of the allopathic body are wanting in wisdom, and hold principles which are incompatible with freedom of action, and which in practice are opposed to the health and wellbeing of the nation. As a rule, we object to allow the Anti-Vaccinator to be the medium. of laying before our -readers the claims of any individual member, and of soliciting donations to help a persecuted objector to resist the law, and to give effect to his own conscientious convictions. In the absence of any special fund to meet such cases, and the utter impossibility of raising adequate funds to pay for all those who object to the rite, and who now submit because they cannot pay, we have long advocated the practice that each town, or district, should attend to its own requirements, and where that fails, we have advised submission ;-advice, by the way, which we should not take in our own case. The instance we have here to refer to is that of Mr. Wm. Clarkson, of Selby, and it is exceptional in two respects. Firstly-Selby is a very small agricultural town, and Mr. Clarkson is almost alone in his opposition: and secondly, he is a man of great intelligence and force of character; he has paid | fines, till he has nothing left to pay with; without money, his goods have been sold under different distraints, until all his furniture has disappeared; and the last prosecution, by which the fines and costs amounted to about £10, would have resulted in his being sent to gaol, had it not been for a friend in the village, who lent him the money. Under all these calamities, his health has broken down considerably, and we feel called upon to represent his.case, and to say that any contributions which may be sent to us will be acknowledged in the Journal, and we will see to their proper application. We have strongly advised Mr. Clarkson to leave Selby, inasmuch as in a small town like that it is not likely the law will ever say- "Held. enor(r)h !" The Guardians will prosecute and persecute until the law is repealed. | 244,484 inhabitants. Vaccination, or Blood-Poisoning. The Way in which the Poor. are Deceived. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-I beg to call your attention to some cases which came before Mr. Benson, the magistrate at Southwark Police Court, and which appeared in the Observer of Suniay, Sept. 22, 1872. Amongst the number was that of James Squire, who was fined 5s. and costs for not having his child vaccinated. He said he had comphed with the Act of Parliament since he had received the notices, but the child was very tll and covered with sores. The magistrate said- "The certificates must be sent to the vaccinating officer, or smallpox would spread to an alarming extent." Now, Sir, only fancy this magistrate talking in such a way, whilst it is very well known that if he were cross-examined he would, like Mr. Read, M.P. for South Norfolk, confess that he knew nothing about vaccination. Yet he takes upon himself to tallkin this fashion to the poor and ignorant persons that are brought before him. I think that the amount of smallpox we have had along with the Compulsory Act, should make magistrates reflect before they speak from the bench in this style. The truth is, that vaccination is the stock-in-trade of doctors, | and the poor are frightened into having the operation performed. The day of retribution is, however, .at and.- Yours j 1 hand,- Yours, Anti-Vaccinator. Oa. 'London, Oct..22, 1872. fortality Returns for London, Lille, Rome, & Turin. (From Le Soir, Sept. 2, 1872.) In London, out of a population of 3,311,298 inhabitants, 1,274 deaths have been registered from the 18th to the 24th August. smallpox made 16 victims ; measles, 12; scarlet fever, 12 ; hooping cough, '85; typhoid fever, 18; diarrhoea, 197; cholera nostras, 12; bronchitis, 63; pneumonia, 44. In Lille, with a population of 158,117, from the 1st to the 15th August, 180 deaths have taken place. Measles made 8 victims; typhoid fever, 6; bronchitis, 11; diarrhoea and enteritis, 57. - rom the 12th to the 18th of August, 185 deaths were registered in Rome, out of a population of 7 deaths were caused by typhoid fever, 8 by smallpox, 5 by diphtheria and croup, 2 by pneumonia, and 6 by bronchitis. 115 deaths have been recorded at Turin from the 12th to the 18th August, 1872. smallpox made 2 victims; diarrhoea and dysentry, <2; diphtheria and croup, 1. . The population of that town comprises 212,644 inhabitants. a 220 - a The Re-Vaccination '* Puzzle" of the Vienna and British Medical Journals. Paris, October 28, 1872. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-Before vaccination, the celebrated Tissot wrote:-"The epidemics of smallpox, good and bad, give a mortality of about 13 per cent., or 1 death out of 8 attacked." Since that period, smail-pox is still as exacting. Out of the number of those attacked it claims the same number of victims; only, as vaccination has retarded its development, it is youth which now pays the debt of childhood. Pringle, a very highly esteemed author, said in his turn :-"' smallpox is rare in camps and armies." Now it is common enough there-the reason has been told. See how the authors of the practice of re-vaccination in England boast of their services in sending off their fluid lymph to their armies, to their camps, to their vessels, to their prisons, everywhere that there is an adult and vaccinated population; and what is the result? Vaccination means smallpox! It was from France that the idea of revaccination tion came : contested for a long time, it now triumphs. There is no compulsory law with regard to re-vaccination in France; but we have arbitrary military regulations which operate as well as a law, with penalties for objectors. Lvery young soldier on his entrance into a regiment is re-vaccinated. Our army knows of no exceptions. A new garrison now occupies Paris. Well, every day the soldiers are taken by companies by- their captain to the vaccination station. It may be affirmed that in France there are few subjects above the age of 20 years who have no been re-vaccinated, but all the soldiers have certainly undergone the operation. But let us turn to this alleged number of deaths from smallpox in the French army. They were, says the statement, 23,469. First, whence was the information obtained ? The necessary documents are not to be had from the Minister of War. But let us admit it. We must not forget Tissot and modern statistics. Thus the number of deaths must be multiplied by eight in order to obtain the total number of patients, which gives almost 200,000 men. During that year France counted no more than 200,000 men under arms. Therefore all the French soldiers had smallpox, if 23,469 fell victims to it! This is incredible-it is untrue!   [Novemiber 1, 1872. a The civil population was more in danger than the military from smallpox. At Paris, for instance, the epidemic raged with fury for a long time. The - population counted 2,000,000 inhabitants. Well, without knowing the exact statistics of the smallpox -(I have only had a few details)-our capital has not lost more than 8,000 or 9,000 persons; 80 times less in proportion to the population than the deaths said to have occurred in the French army. Should not the author of the statistics given at St. Petersburg have spoken of Berlin, which also suffered? And are not the Prussians vaccinated and re-vaccinated to the highest pitch? We vaccinometres might reply to you vaccino- manes -'' Your ignorance and deceit multiplied by each other would amount to the sum of your perpetual contradictions. Vaccination, the work of quackery, belongs in no wise to the great tree of the art of healing. You think you have found a specific : know that there is no more a specific in medicine than there is a fountain of Jowvence for restoring to age the lost freshness of youth. You have displaced death -that is the whole matter ; but the consequences of this displacement are most deplorable for the future of families and nations."' Referring again to the paragraph in question, it is my opinion-Firstly, that the 23,469 deaths have been cases, not deaths; although it may be true enough that the smallpox deaths were excessive in the French army. Secondly, that the 263 deaths of re-vaccinated Germans, and the 23,469 re-vaccinated Frenchmen-or half or one-third that number, as is most likely - is in itself as thorough a demolition of the re-vaccination theory as any man can conceive. Well, in conclusion-I challenge inquiry and disproof of the allegation that one army engaged in the Franco-German war, was as effectively re-vaccinated as the other. What will the vaccinator say P Will he deny my statement? Let him do so, and he shall hear from me again. A. Bayard. * The Results of ReVaccination. - According to a statement made at the Statistical Congress held this year in St. Petersburg, the total number of deaths from smallpox in the German army during the recent Franco-German war was 263. This small mortality is attributed to the system of compulsory vaccination, which every man who enters the army must undergo. On the other hand, in the lrench army, where re-vaccination is not compulsory, the number of deaths, as stated by a French authority, (c) was 23,469. This terrible difference (says the Wiener Medizin Wochenschr) must puzzle the greatest opponents of vaccination.-British Medical Journal, *The above paragraph is the one referred to in '* Notes on Passing Eyents,'' and in Dr, Bayard's communication, November 1, 1872.]  . 22) Vaccination Prosecutions. Gainsborough. John William Staniland, of Gainsborough, foundry operative, was charged by Mr. Brownlow with neglecting to have his child vaccinated as required by Act of Parliament. The Defendant pleaded a conscientious objection, and said :- Gentlemen,-I believe it to be my duty as a father to do all in my power to protect my child from evil, either mental or physical, and I do not believe in vaccination either as a preventive against smallpox, or as lessening its severity on those who suffer from it; but on the contrary, I believe it to be a means of imparting foul diseases to children who would otherwise be healthy. Therefore, I cannot, consistently with my duty to my child, permit it to be vaccinated.-The Defendant was fined 10/-, and 9/6 costs.-Mr. William Drust, of Gainsborough, came forward and_ said :- By permission of the Bench, I have attended here to pay the fine in this case, out of money subscribed for that purpose --. The Chairman, interrupting, said -We have nothing to do with that. Mr. Drust paid the money.--James Lister, surveyor, Gainsborough, was fined 20/-, and ordered to pay 9/6 costs for refusing to have his child vaccinated. He said he was strongly opposed to vaccination.-Mr. Oldman having asked him if he courted being a " martyr," he said he would pay the penalty, but he did not think that he should ever submit. -George Mumby, of Willoughton, was charged with a similar offence. His wife appeared and pleaded conscientious objection, saying-One of my children has suffered from being vaccinated, and they may as well die of smallpox as of vaccination. The Defendant was mulcted in the same penalty-(which was paid in this case also by Mr. Drust) ; and the Chairman stated that 'in the future, in cases of the same kind, the fine will be doubled.""-The day may yet come when the chairman will see it more judicious to dismiss such summonses with the remark of the Stipendiary of Marylebone :-"I think the father is the most proper person to judge as to vaccination." Banbury. (Before the County Magistrates.) Prosecutions under the Vaccination Act. Edward Railton, Adderbury, was summoned for not obeying an order of the magistrates, made on the 18th of July, to vaccinate four of his children. Mr. Baker, barrister, appeared for Mr. Railton. John Bonner, vaccinating officer for the Bloxham district, said he was appointed by the Guardians, and he had served the order on Mr. Railton on the 31st of July, and since then he had received no certificate of the children being vaccinated, neither had he received any notice of insusceptibility or unfitness. He could not swear that the children were not vaccinated. Cross-examined: He was paid by salary. He dt not expect any fees for these _ prosecutions.-Mx. Baker: I should like to hear read the minutes of the evidence taken when the order was made. The question will arise whether the order is valid or not.-The Clerk : You have taken no proceedings to quash the order, or appcal against it-Mr. Baker: The order appears to me to be improperly got up; and I should hke to hear the evidence.-Colonel North: In what respect is the order improperly drawn up ?-Mr. Baker : The order states that upon Mr. Railton's own statement and confession, they found that the children were not vaccinated. The defendant was not present, and could not make a statement. I again ask that the evidence be read.-The Clerk declined, and said they were not obliged to take a minute of the evidence. It was not like a case of felony.-Mr. 'Baker: If the Bench decide against me, I shall ask for a case for a superior Court. Ido not propose to enter into the question whether the vaccination law is a good one or not; that is not the question you have to decide. I am instructed that vaccination is a bad thing, and I am furnished with statistics to prove that, but I shall not go into it. With reference to the policy of the law, the Bench have it in their discretion to enforce it, and on this poin' I wish to say afew words. The vaccination laws, as they at present stand, are bad, because they coulc not be enforced. As an illustration of this, I may say that only a few days ago I was in the company of two parents in the town of Cheltenham, and one said to the other that his child was perfectly healthy until it was vaccinated; and the other said he would so to prison rather than have his child vaccinated. They would thus see that the law could not be enforced.-Mr. Norris: All that we have to do is to carry out the law.-Mr. Baker: I apprehend the Magistrates have considerable discretion in the administration of the laws of the realm. 'There were many obsolete laws. There had been no prosecutions in his time for a man neglecting to go to church. Then Sunday trading was illegal, but proceedings were not taken.-Colonel North: This is not an obsolete law. We only passed it in 1871.- Mr. Baker: The law at present existing was passed in 1867, and was amended in 1871. With reference to the policy of the Guardians in the matter, he apprehended there had been no epidemic in the town, and he did not understand the policy of stirring up the question when it was leading to mischief, In this case there had been a previous conviction for one of the children, and by the common law of England a person could not be placed in jeopardy twice for the same offence. He was quite aware that by a miserable quibble it was possible for the magistrates twice to prosecute or persecute a man in a case like this, for though nominally a different offence, it was practically the same. The defendant was charged, not with neglecting vaccination, but with neglecting the notice. Neglecting the notice had been turned into the means of repeated prosecutions, and in some districts the magistrates had refused to issue a second summons. One of the Stipendiary Magistrates refused to do so, In the case of Spooner v. Adkins, the magistrate 222   declined to make an order, although it had been held he might have done 80. But Mr. Spooner said that if a man would not have his children vaccinated, he would dismiss the case. The present case came under the Act of 1871, and under. section 11, 34 and 35 Vict., c, 19, and he submitted that the proceedings in the case were too late. There was no evidence produced at the hearing that the children were not vaccinated, and in the absence of that, no valid order could be made. They had no evidence that the order was valid, and they had not a tittle of evidence to prove that the order had not been obeyed. The defendant was not required to send any certificate of his obedience under the 31st section. It was for the other side to prove their case. The summons ought never to have been issued. It was issued to endeavour to carry out the laws that could not be enforced. The proceedings were barred by the statute. A man ought not to be prosecuted twice for the same offence. -Mr. Norris asked why the law had been passed by the House of Commons, if it was not to be carried out.-Mr. Baker: The 'spirit of the statute all through is a single penalty.-Colonel North: That was, not the view taken by the House of Commons.-Mr. Baker: It was never passed by the House of Commons. I defy. anybody to show me a debate on it.-Mr. Norris: Why did the House of Commons pass the Act if it is not to be carried out ?-Col. North: The Act says that the defendant shall send a certificate showing that the children were vaccinated. -Mr. Baker: That is net the proceeding here. If you decide against me, I shall apply for a case.-The Magistrates and the Clerk withdrew for a short time, and on their return the Chairman said they considered 'it was their duty to enforce the order, and they would fine the defendant 20s. and costs. A case was granted. We have since heard that it is not contemplated to carry the matter further. J. H. Beere was charged with not carrying out an order of the Bench to have a child vaccinated. Mr. Pearse appeared for the defence, and said that since the summons had been issued, Mr. Beere had removed to Banbury, and was out of their jurisdiction. -Mr. Norris: He was in our jurisdiction when the offence was committed.-The Clerk said that if the parent was in the union or district where the information was given; he could be proceeded against. The Bench overruled the objection; and Colonel North humorously remarked that Mr. Pearse might take a case. (Laughter). ' Mr. Bonner deposed that he served the order on the Ist of August to have defendant's child vaccinated, and he had received no certificate. Mr. Pearse said' the proceedings were informal, and he hoped they would inflict a mitigated penalty.-Defendant was fined 10s. and costs. John Crosby, Adderbury, was charged under . similar circumstances with not vaccinating three ' children. Mr. Bonner gave similar evidence as in the other cases. Defendant, who had nothing to say, was fined 1ds. and costs. Keighley. - The Anti-Vaccination Society has not one idle in this town. On Wednesday, July 3, a deputation from the society, consisting of the Rev. H. Crabtree, Messrs. R. A. Milner, se Spencer, and 8. Billows, waited upon the Board of, Guardians, to request them to send a petition in favour of Mr, Pease's Bill; and also askine them not to press the Compulsory Vaccination Act until the Bill of Mr. Pease: had been before the House of Commons. The deputation was well received, and the Board listened very attentively to the arguments of the speakers. A copy of Professor Newman's address-'' Compulsory Vaccination Opposed to Science and Freedom " -was distributed. amongst the Guardians. It was ultimately decided not to send a petition from. the Board, but that some of the members would have no objection to sign one. <A petition from the town of Keighley, sioned. by nearly 2,000 persons, was sent to Mr. Pease for presentation, against compaulsory vaccination. There is a very strong feeling here against the Act; and we have no doubt that if every town in England would agitate the question, this abominable law would soon he repealed, Hver since July last the agitation in Keighley has increased. Meetings have been held, as prosecutions were continued; but public feeling is_ decidedly against all compulsion. We are preparing for an active campaign during the ensuing winter months. Selby. William Clarkson, the Anti-Vaccinator, in Court Again.-Wm. Clarkson, of Selby, was sugiticor gl by Mr. Richard Shipman, vaccination officer of the Union, for not producing his children, Arthur, Adeline, and Percy Allen Clarkson, before tho justices, on the 19th of August. The defendant admitted the children were not produced, and said he had nothing to say in respect of the charges. He again said, in reply to the chairman, that he would not produce them. In each case, it was stated the penalty which the Bench had power to mfict was 20s. There were three other charges against the defendant, for not complying ee an order of the Guardians to vaccinaté the children. The defendant said when charged : I beg to dechne (c) answering any questions I am not bound. to do. Mr. Shipman said he had met the defendant since the summonses were issued, and hé had said that the law must take its course. The defendant demanded proof of the fact that the children had not béen vaccinated; and Mr. Shipman was Sworn, and deposed that he had received no certificate ofthe children being vaccination ted. The penalty in each of these cases was 20s. Clarkson said that the non-production of the orders was not legal evidence, and that without evidence of the non-vaccination of the children any conviction would be illegal. The Clerk, however, held the contrary, remarking that the defendant shut out the evidence by refusing to produce his children. Mr. Shipman pressed for a penalty in each case, as the defendant: set the law at defiance. The Clerk as November 1, 187 oF reminded the Bench that they could commit without a distress warrant, if there were no goods, or they considered such a warrant would be to the injury of the defendant's family. Mr. Shipman said the penalty and costs, 28s. 6d., inflicted on the 19th of August. had not yet been paid. The Chairman (to defendant): You have made up your mind not to comply with the law *-Mr. Clarkson, after contending that he had not been properly convicted, and remarking that could he afford it he would take the case to a higher court, added that in England there was no law for the poor man. The Chairman remarked that if he thought so, he had better get away from it. After some conversation, and a lengthy consultation-(the Bench being evidently indisposed to commit the accused)-they inflicted a penalty: of 20s. and 10s. costs in each case-in all £9. In default of any goods being found to satisfy the distress, the defendant was ordered to be imprisoned 14 days in each caso-in all three months. The defendant left the court without saying anything, the Bench being informed that he had no goods in his house. [Since Monday, the fine and costs have been paid. |-Selby Express. Wigan. William Henry Knight, of Bradshaw-street, and Levi Booth, of Wallgate, were summoned at the instance of Mr. Robert Halliwell, vaccination officer, for neglecting to have their children vaccinated. Mr. Ackerley, clerk to the Board of Guardians, prosecuted, The charge against Mr. Booth, who produced a certificate to the effect that his child was not in a fit state to be vaccinated, was withdrawn. Mr. Knight pointed out to the magistrates that he had been summoned a dozen times, and reminded them that in other towns the prosecutions were allowed to stop after the first summons had been taken out.-Mr. Ackerley said that notwithstanding all the efforts of those opposed to vaccination, the Committee of the House of Commons would not consent to the repeal of the clause under which the repeated convictions took place.-Mr. Knight said the Committee reported in favour of its repeal, but the House of Lords decided to continue it.-The Mayor said the magistrates had no alternative but to make the order asked for,; which was that Mr. Knight's two children should be vaccinated within 14 days.Wigan Examiner. A Non-Vaccinator.-Amos Jacques, of Wigan- lane, was summoned for not having two of his children vaccinated. Mr. Ackerley prosecuted, and Mr. Halliwell proved the case. An order was made for the children to be vaccinated in 14 days. Loughborough Board of Guardians. - A letter from the vaccination officer of the Loughborough district was read, reporting the case of a man named Caldwell, at 'Hathern, who refuses to have his child vaccinated ; and it was resolyed that the officer be directed to take legal proceedings to compel eonolencs with the Act.-Loughborough Advertiser, Oct. 3  . 223 The Question of Compulsory Vaccination. A public meeting was held at the Workmen's Hal), West Ham-lane, on Tuesday evening last, on the question of smallpox and vaccination, several members. of the Anti-vaccination Society being present. The. chair was taken by Geo. Dornbusch, Esq., and there was a very fair attendance.-The Chairman, in opening the proceedings, said that the subject upon which they were met that evening was one of the greatest importance to every individual in the kingdom, as it referred to the life and wellbeing of every family ; and the question was whether' the operation, so-called vaccination, was any preventive against smallpox ? He would ask them to call to their remembrance whether they knew of any person amongst their acquaintance who had' been vaccinated, and yet who had 'had smallpox ? and he would venture to say they would find not only one, but several. He knew personally at least 60 persons _who had been vaccinated, and yet- who had been frequently attacked by the smallpox. The answer generally was that they had not been properly vaccinated ; but how were they to know whether a child had been properly vaccinated or not? It was avery serious question to medical gentlemen, for either they did not perform their duty properly, or there was no protection against smallpox.. He had. paid great attention to the subject, and had five children, not one of whom was vaccinated, or ever would be. His eldest child was 24 years old, and that would show that the subject was not a new one to him. He had looked about him, and had come to the conclusion that vaccination was all a delusion, and that if any one benefited by it, it was the doctors, as. disease was their stock-in-trade, and if it were not for disease, what were they to do? The interest of the doctor was not identical with that of the people, as the interest of the people was to be well, while the interest of the doctor was quite the contrary. Every one coming from the Creator must be healthy, and if they obey ed the rales of health he believed they could live without sickness, and die without pain. He knew a person who had been both re-vaccinated and inoculated, and yet who had died from the smallpox, after having taken all that trouble for nothing. They would find that there were children who were ill ever since they had been vaccinated, but that all brought grist to the doctors' mill, T. Baker, a barrister, next made a very long speech on the subject, saying that he had heard the question of vaccination discussed in the House of Commons, and had never heard such a great amount of nonsense in such a short space of time. He also spoke of the plan of inoculation, which he said had been introduced into this country by a very silly woman; but they must bear in mind that although it had 'been successfully carricd on in Turkey, the Turks were a very clean nation, in the habit of bathing a great deal; and when they were inoculated, it did not so much hurt them as it would those who were not so 224. The Anti-Vaccinator. | Noy mbor 1, 1872- clean in their habits. Notwithstanding the improvement in doctors' treatment now going on, still the death-rate amongst smallpox patients was higher now than it was in the last century. He further commented on the expressed opinion of certain speakers in the House of Commons, and then moved the following resolution :-" That this meeting is of opinion that the enforcement of the Compulsory Vaccination Act has entirely failed to stamp out smallpox, or to lessen its ravages, and, on the contrary, the statistics of the Registrar-General and the smallpox Hospitals prove that vaccination is a means of propagating the disease of smallpox.'"'- Mr. John Stephens seconded the motion, in a speech brimful of statistics to prove the fallacy of vaccination, after which the motion was put to the meeting and carried.-A female in the body of the hall then rose, and said that she had lost one child by vaccination, and another by the smallpox, although it had been vaccinated ; and expressed her opinion that it was not mainly through want of cleanliness that the disease was caused, as she had paid great attention to that point.- Messrs. Emery, Taylor, and other speakers, also addressed the meeting, and a memorial being agreed upon to forward to the Government against the principles of vaccination, the meeting concluded with a vote of thanks to the chairman.-Stratford Express. The Press and Anti-Vaceination Correspondence.- The Keighley News publishes the following letter from Mr. R. A. Milner: -'"'I have paid my fine for 'neglecting to have my child vaccinated.' I have certainly no fault to find with the way in which my townsmen carry out, as they are bound, this despotic law, but I should like to contrast it, with your kind permission, with the treatment of such offenders as myself in some other parts of the country, that your readers may blush with indignation at the persecutions which are perpetrated in enlightened England. Charles Nye, of Chatham, has been imprisoned for five months, working on the treadmill amongst the lowest criminals. Another tradesman was taken from his home in prison clothes and handcuffs, to serve his time likewise. One has all his goods sold to pay fines and expenses; and in another case the wife and family had to go to the workhouse while the bread-winner underwent the poor man's penalty. These few cases will suffice as illustrations. How come laws so barbarous-so like a relic of the dark ages? Not by the will of Britons. Not by the will of our present Government. The continuous Compulsory Law was opposed by the Parliamentary Committee on Vaccination, opposed by Mr. Forster on behalf of the Government, opposed by an overwhelming majority of the people's representatives ; but in the small hours of morning, 15 hereditary lords sat_in conclave and reversed by a majority of one the intelligent decision of the nation. Let us be thankful for their labours in the grand work of maintaining the vigour, health and happiness of humanity! It is always the nature of cliques under State patronage to exercise a domineering spirit and to love darkness rather than light; and so we find it suits the purpose of the vaccinating monopoly to keep dark, and not argue the secrets of their craft. . before the public. If they really believe it is such a blessing as they profess, why not prove it by educating us in its benefits, and disproving the arguments of their opponents ? Our country pays about £800,000 a-year to have the poor vaccinated ; another £10,000 alongside it to pay lecturers, might possibly revive the old-fashioned notion of the benefits of poisoned blood, and stop the necessity of fines and imprisonments, by converting us to the benign influences of the lancet.'' Anti-Vaccination at Sunderland.-Yesterday, Mr. T. J. Huntley, operative joiner, was summoned before the Sunderland magistrates for refusing to have his child vaccinated. Mr. A. G. M'Kenzie (of Messrs. Kidson's firm) prosecuted on behalf of the Guardians; and Mr. Thompson, vaccination officer, gave evidence in the case.-Defendant : I am guilty of refusing. I am convinced that vaccination is entirely wrong in itself, and I have had much evidence before me that children have suffered greatly from vaccination.-The Bench: You must abide by the law.-Defendant: I cannot comply with a wrong law.-The Bench: You will have to go through this ordeal again and again, and be fined. -Defendant : I cannot help that, sir : I understand. --The Bench: You are fined 10s. and costs.- Huntley walked quietly up to the Clerk, paid the monev, and then left the court.--Mr. Jonathan Priestley, jun., druggist, appeared in answer to a similar summons.-Mr. M'Kenzie said they had to ask the Bench to make another order in this case. One had been previously made, and defendant had been fined for disobedience to it.-Defendant: I conscientiously object to vaccination, and cannot submit.-The Bench made an order. Mr. Robert Paxton, of Monkwearmouth, was similarly summoned.-Defendant: In the first place, I conscientiously object ; and as a legal point, the child is not within the borough of Sunderland, nor in the county of Durham.-Mr. M'Kenzie said there was an express section in the Act of Parliament to meet that.-The Bench: Yes, there is. If your child was in another state even, the law would reach you.- Defendant: It would be more to the credit of the Guardians if they would give a bigger loaf to the poor, than to be thrashing my back in this way. The child has not been vaccinated in the usual way, and shall not be as long as I live; so you may do as you like. (Applause in the gallery of the court.)-The Bench made an order in this case also.- Newcastle The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... 1s. 6d. Do. 12 iba cocaeopions 3s, on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 78, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Bor> te ame Printed by J, Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . << - Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.8., F.8.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vacei * i 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. 8 0 e Anti Vaccinator, Kes All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 15. New Series. November 15, 1872. ~--- SST [Price One Penny. Contents, Page INGE OM PASSIONS TVONUS 3.x ces. sooe0eeis cae =< a0 225 'Vaccination is a Blood-Poisoner"'.........- 22K Which is the Best Protection against smallPox 229 AmOryator Eelp) £rOMml BOStOM oss sees. cases sce 229 AMI ViACCINAGLOM., 1A CATIAGE) \F.a...c.o0ls.o0 cree vclsieie 230 A Handle for Anti-Vaccinators.........-.sse0. 230 Dr. Tripe and Vaccination versus Cleanliness .. 230 PGi PGCE MMAR OO 4 scien sos 55.0/6s.sts 6 bain vieee aces 231 AM WVIGICE TrOT ING W NICKICO case see bolo acicee o's 231 Vaceimation, Certificates <.odseeccssectecese sesien SOL chi tal AABACEA CHES cs (0. 0/a ers <areielorecereie siete: ole sioieieis'e ote 232 WA GOrina rome COSERES cise Mile csleit ss vidislevavs wie ali 235 W.E. Forster, M.P., on the Vaccination Question 235 Toes Man Live out '"' Half his Days''?........ 236 Queryawailtingstor an vAMBWer <scs.cs6 cose oe > 237 EXD OullGe tO -AMIShEAliay a5 acceso ore.e¢ ere use siaveeave 237 Is Vaccination a Preventive against smallPox 237 The Increase of Lunacy in Treland............ 238 Vaccination Prosecutions: Dewsbury .........- 238 The Dewsbury Board of Guardians and Mr. Fox 239 Notes on Passing Events. '' A legally qualified medical man"' is now in a Scotch gaol. The charge against him, and for which he is in '' durance vile,"' is the first of its kind that has been brought to light.* Thos. Black Webster was the public vaccinator for the parish of Bracadale, in the Isle of Skye, and in that capacity he had forged false certificates of the ''successful vaccination" of certain children in the parish, had lodged the same with the registrar, and obtained the allowance for the operation. There were 23 charges against him, "Since writing the above article, we have heard of a similar case, which occurred a few years ago at a small town within twenty miles of Leeds. The matter was summarily disposed of by the Board of Guardians; but the surgeon had to leave the town, and is now practising at a village in the neighbourhood.. all of which had occurred between March, 1866, and March, 1871. The parents of the children do not seem to have been objectors to vaccination tion; and why he should have run the risk of detection and the punishment attaching thereto, when in an hour or two's time he could have performed the operations, and claimed hig money in a proper manner, is a matter we cannot attempt toexplain. One thing is certain- he must have been in want of money, and the forging of these false certificates, by which he might gain the paltry sum of £3. 9s. or thereabouts, seems to have been the readiest way of relieving himself from immediate and pressing difficulties. Detection, long delayed, came at last, and at the Inverness Sessions Lord Neayes sentenced the offender to four months' imprisonment. It is very probable that the 23 caseg only represent a tithe of those for which the vaccinator received his fee for "work not done." So far as the children are concerned, we cannot but rejoice that the roguery of the vaccinator saved them (at any rate for a year or two) from a vile and disgusting operation; and if we had had the passing of the sentence we should have dealt with him more leniently on that account. The circumstance illustrates the force of: the temptation which State-pay offers to those who are brought within the '' atmosphere of infeotion." How many vaccinators, as needy as this Dr. Webster, to assist their needs will shut their eyes to the dangers of the practice, and will hunt up recalcitrant parents, and by a system of coercion enforce the rite simply for the sake of the pay,-their name is legion. During the 226   & [November 15, 1872. recent epidemic, when vaccination and re-vaccination were recommended, the public papers noticed instances of contracts where £5 (and in some cases considerably more) were gained in a couple of hours, by vaccinating the pupils of a school, or re-vaccinating the workmen of a particular firm, or the members of a family of repute. Is it to be expected that the. faculty will give up, without a struggle, a rite which is an important source of revenue? As a matter of business, the vaccinator will not put '' hard questions" to himself, and the prospect of immediate gain perverts the judgment. If the virus which the doctor uses in vaccination came from behind the ears of Beelzebub himself, provided John Simon could guarantee it was ''pure lymph," the rite would be enforced as 'rigidly as the law would permit, and reason would be helpless to forge an argument that could overbalance the logic of gold. Vaccination will continue, with all its absurdities thick upon its head, until the day comes that the (c) people shall rise as one man, and swear by the manes of the dead, and by the love they have for the living, that this worse than parsan practice, born of ignorance, nurtured by su:ersti- P) a ) 23 tion, and supported by fraud, shall be no more. During one day last week we had four interesting communications. One informed us that the Anti-vaccination movement had commenced in good earnest in South Australia ; the second appealed to us for help from a lady living in Plymouth County, Massachusetts; a third was from a physician in New York, who is anxious to circulate our Journal in that city ; and the last was from a physician living in Montreal, Canada, who also enclosed the names and addresses of eighteen other physicians, all resident in that city, and requesting their names to be entered as subscribers to the Anti-vaccinator. The last letter was addressed to our able correspondent, Mr. A. Wheeler, Darlington, and by him forwarded to this office. The day cannot be far distant when the movement in which we are engaged will occupy a far different position in the eyes. of the country than what it does at the present time. The subject is comparatively of modern origin ; and until now it has never taken hold of the masses of the people. The difficulties we have to encounter and to surmount are neither few nor far between. there is seldom a day passes, however, without bringing us new friends, ands with them the intelligence of new centres of action opening up for the diffusion of information. We are not slow in taking advantage of every opportunity that is presented. It will be as gratifying to our readers, aS it is to ourselves, to know that the Journal is now speeding its way across the ocean, and that before long its pages will be enriched by communications from distant lands. Our paper is doing its work in many countries now, geographically remote, it may be, yet one with us in our desire to rid the world of '' Jenner's curse," and to improve to that extent the social and the physical condition of mankind, and it is merely a question of time, our united labours will im the end accomplish the beneficent purpose we have in view. To contribute, in however small a degree, to that object, is at the same time our highest aim, and our best reward. A little boy, son of Mr. Davis, of Butterley Park, Ripley, died on the 17th July last, aged three months ;.and the surgeon, a Mr. Marshall Hooper, in his certificate gave as the cause of death '' Vaccination." Copy of the certificate may be found in the <Anti-vaccinator, p. 141. The Lancet for August 31, commenting on the certificate, has the following remarks :-- Mr. Hooper should have specified the cause of death. We all know that vaccination of itself does not kill. Any complication of it, or unusual effect of the operation, should have been stated in the certificate. Mr. Hooper is, doubtless, not responsible for the publication of the certificate, but he is responsible for its defects. Dr. Hooper-inadvertently, we admit-stated the real truth when he gave as the "' cause" of death, '' vaccination." Oh! says the Lancet, you should have entered as the "cause," the '"'unusual effect," or the ''complication." This is by no means an wnusual thing to do, we know; but why educate the profession in the art of lying? Why not speak the truth? The November 15, 1872.3  . 229 ''eomplication," or the '' unusual effect," is not acause. The ''cause" was the vaccination- the blood-poisoning; and millions have been murdered in open daylight by that same operation. '' We all know that vaccination does not kill." The answer supplied by the ''common sense" of the nation is this-'' We all know that vaccination does kill." vaccination tion is murder. 'Take that, ye Editor of the Lancet, and make the best of it. " Vaccination is a Blood-Poisoner." By Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S8. (Continued from page 211.) The vigor of their own life is the best security men have against the invasion of their organisation by low eorpuscnlar forms of life, for such the propagating matter of zymotic diseases may be held to be.-Dr. Farr. ''Low corpuscular forms of life." Where is there a form of life so "low" as the smallpox germ, or that which develops the "'cowpox"' in the cow, or "the grease' in the horse? Answer me, Dr. Farr! Where is the man who would voluntarily pollute his fingers by touching "the smallpox patient, the cow, or the horse, in a state of active disease P Answer me, Dr. Farr! Where then is the man, in the name of science, who dares to avow his faith in a rite which teaches the doctrine that to impregnate the healthy blood with the vile essence of such matters, confers an immunity from a specific disease ? Answer me, Dr. Farr! do you believe it? Not you, indeed! Such horrible doctrines are heathenish, they belong strictly to the lowest strata of quackery, and are utterly unworthy of the temper and spirit of the age. ' Talk of "good pus" and " purelymph!' Why, the very terms involve a contradiction so glaring that they who cannot, are they who will not seo it. "None so blind as they who will not see,'' saith the proverb. The phrase "pure lymph" has no place in science, although it has in the mouths of those who pretend to teach the people; but they might as well speak of "pure" or "healthy" corruption, and inoculate us with the virus from a dead body as a prophylactic against death itself. There is no great eternal principle of truth underlying the practice of vaccination. The vaccinator can plead no precedent. Nature in all her teachings is dead against the observance. God, in His wisdom, has enshrined that wonderful fluid, the blood, which is "the life," in veins and arterics where it is protected from external mischicf, and the most unmistakable injunction is " touch it not." | However humane and noble may be the object in view, woe be to the man of science if in the dissecting room he is careless to note whether there ig any abrasion of the skin on his hands, for the poison, if such there be, will find it. How small are the causes which sometimes produce death! The bite of afi y; the sting of a wasp, the scratch of a pin, the accidental wounding by a rusty nail, and a score of other causes apparently unimportant, all depending, nevertheless, on the direct inoculation of the blood, yet, in the end, the direst consequences ensue. The rattlesnake may destroy a lesser animal by a bite, and the wound is only like that inflicted by a pin, but into which its poison has been trajected, and the animal dies in a minute, and the snake at a gulp may transfer the animal it has poisoned into its own stomach, and no mischief results {0 the reptile. But inoculate the blood of the gnake with its own poison, and it dies as soon as any other animal. The scorpion finds an easy and a speedy death when, hotly pressed, it turns round and inserts its sting into its own flesh. The vaccine virus is a mortal poison. The base of it is smallpox matter, than which there ig nO poison more subtie and more destructive to hfe. How terrible, therefore, is the responsibility, how horrible is the crime committed by the vaccinator when he ventures to lacerate or puncture the skin, and impregnate the blood with a poison which is fatal to man as it is to the lower animals! I have heard scores of mothers say-" My child wag well enough until it was vaccinated, but it never got over the operation-it seemed to pine away from that day." And no marvel, for the vaccine virus is a poison essentially mortal in its character and composition; and the same conditions which mitigate its influence in some constitutions, would Operate in a similar way if the same patient had been subjected to inoculation with animal or vegetable poisons of a deadly nature, but which had been modified in like manner with the smallpox virus, by previous transmission through the cow. Experiments have been made with the virus upon dogs and other animals, and the effects, such as convulsions and death, have followed, and on examination of the viscera the same appearances have presented themselves ag if death had been caused by the bite of the cobra, or by inoculation with a vegetable poison. T his, then, is the point-vaccination is playing at murder, and to place the rite on a level with the acts of such men as Dove, Palmer, and Pritchard, the only element 228   (November 15, 1872. absent is "the intent''-the act is the same, nevertheless; and in thousands of instances, death is as much the immediate and direct consequence, as if, instead of the vaccine virus, the poison used had been strychnine or woorali; and where death is not the immediate result, the system is as much, and as permanently, injured by each operation, which is complete in itself, when the blood is poisoned, ag if the child or man had been bitten by a hydrophobic dog; the poison may act prejudicially at once, accordingly as the constitution favours the development of the irritant poison, or it may sleep for years, and only be roused into action when the forces of nature, depressed by untoward and unhealthy conditions, can no longer prevent the germ life, conveyed in the bite, or the inoculation, from propagating itself with such power as to overcome and destroy the "vis vite." I admit the difficulty of proving the position to the entire satisfaction cither of the public or the profession, but to me it is as clear as the sun at noonday. A man is bitten by a dog, and for the time there is no apparent harm, and the person recovers from the wound and the fright, an pursues his ordinary calling for many months to come, until the circumstance has almost escaped his memory. The occasion, however, arrives at last, when the vital powers are impoverished, or debilitated, or he is suffering from some temporary and obscure functional derangement, and hydrophobia takes possession of its victim, and he dies the most distressing of all forms of death, snapping and barking like a dog. Now, were it not for the " barking like a dog," there would be no little difficulty in attributing the effect to the right cause, for who, in searching for a cause, would dream of going back ten or fifteen months to discover the author of all this present mischief? In this case the connection between the two events, the blood-poisoning and the death, are distinct and convincing. Just so is it with regard to vavcination and the disease and death among the people, and which flows from the operation-the blood-poisoning.. The virus is smallpox matter, and the natural result is smallpox, and smallpox it is, and where do we findit? Why, in by far the greatest majority of fatal instances, in children: 25 per cent. of the total deaths in smallpox occur in infants under one year, and 50 per cent. in children under five years of age: this is cause and effect. The smallpox death is the "barking"' of the dog; it is the "low corpuscular form of life'' implanted in the blood and multiplying until at length the whole system becomes a mass of corruption, and the victim falls, burnt up and shrivelled, like the young forest tree before the blast of the prairie fire. And to think that this havoc is done, and suffered, under the sanction of science, protected by the majesty of the law, that opposition is crushed out by pains and penalties, and that men can be found, willing, even for pay, to perform so murderous an operation! Then again, refer to the disease in the country included under such heads as measles, scarlatina, diphtheria, croup, hooping-cough, typhus, diarrhcea, tabes mesenterica, hydrocephalus, conyulsions, bronchitis, atrophy, and debility, principally infantile diseases; and tell me, where is there such a malignant contributor to this 'dance of death" as vaccination ? Well might the poor Hindoo, long centuries ago, represent the smallpox goddess as a female of great strength, bearing in each hand a naked scimitar, her arms uplifted and ready to strike right and left; upon her head she bore a vessel containing the dreaded infection, and her attendants, dressed and armed in like fashion, are ready to carry out her high behests, whilst in the background the figures of young women are seen advancing, laden with offerings to appease the goddess, or to acknowledge their gratitude for life and beauty spared. Could the Hindoo in our day see but half the disease and death which is indirectly and directly produced in this island by vaccination, his inventive genius would fail. to conjure up a representation more true to life than the one which his ancestors symbolised in ages long since passed. One's indignation is put to a severe test to reflect that thousands of men, armed with lancets wherewithal to cut and slash, and with points ingeniously prepared with all sorts of villainous secretions to inoculate and defile our children's healthy blood, are busy all the year round in this unholy trafficking in disease and death. To propitiate their deity the worshippers of Baal cut themselves with knives and lancets, crying "O Baal, hear us!' but he heard them not, and in the deep ahasement of their superstitious ceremonials they cried louder, and cut themselves deeper till the blood gushed out. The modern vaccinator plies his lancet and his loathsome lymph, and cries with equal vigor "O Baal, hear us!" but the smallpox goddess, deaf to his entreaties, passes through the land and treads his prayers, his prophylactics, and his protection in the dust, and the measured "tramp of death" is heard in all our streets. There is no protection against disease, save in ** cleanliness ;'' cleanliness in house, in habit, and in person. it remains for sanitary science to inculcate and establish that idea, and in its universal acceptance such wretched, discordant, and unnatural rites as that comprised in vaccination, will be swept away. Our land groans beneath the burden of this pollution. How long shall those vaccination stations, the murder shops of our day, disgrace our towns and villages? How long shall the Government patronise and protect a profession which sanctions such disgusting observances? How long shall a free people remain peaceable and law-loving whilst they are subject to pains and penalties in refusing to destroy their offspring, even when it is enforced by special Acts of Parliament ? Ye Statesmen! ye Magistrates! ye Guardians of the Poor! tell us what more evidence is required to satisfy you that vaccination is a crime against nature and nature's God; a thing that the people hate; a despoiler of our homes; and a disease producer than which it has no equal! Which is the Best Protection against smallpox -to be Vaccinated or Unvaccinated ? As to the protection of vaccination against an attack of smallpox, it is urged that it is an entire delusion; nay, so far from its being a protection, it is held to be a positive source of attraction. In vaccination, the seeds of smallpox are communicated to the blood, and when the cicatrice heals up, the taint remains in the * blood; and when an epidemic atmosphere prevails, the vaccinated are among the first to suffer. <A piece of iron once magnetised is more susceptible to magnetic influence than a piece of iron which has not undergone that process. Just so is it with reference to the vaccinated, -they are more susceptible to smallpox contagion, and when infected they fare the worst. In proof of this view of the case, Dr. Collins, in his evidence before the Select Committee on the Vaccination Acts, in answer to question 156, gives corroborative testimony :Q. Have you seen any cases of smallpox during the present epidemic?-A. Yes; at the commencement of the present epidemic, [ was called upon to visit six children, all of whom were suffering from smallpox, and they had not been vaccinated. I learned from the parents that the eldest caught the smallpox when visiting at the house of a friend whose child died of smallpox after vaccination. It was curious that this case should present itself at this particular epoch. { watched the cases of those unvaccinated children carefully, and, contrary to everybody's expectations, they passed through the disease with little or no constitutional disturbance, were able to run about the whole time, recovered, and there is not a mark to be seen upon them; but the mother, who was in attendance, and who had been vaccinated and re-vaccinated, caught the smallpox , had it in a confluent form, and her life was despaired of. Two young men, who were residing in the house at the time, and who had also been vaccinated, caught the smallpox; one of them had it in the confluent form, and the other had it very badly. I did not attend those cases. But that was not the end of the chapter. A neighbour, who felt very indfgnant to think that so many children could be found who had not been vaccinated in their particular locality, in fact, threatened all kinds of things ; but in order to mitigate the troubles of this particular family, he volunteered to take charge of one of the children, saying to me at the time-" You know I have no fear of smallpox, because my children have been vaccinated." Strange to say, when the little girl that he took charge of was about to leave, his three sons were attacked with small "pox; and at my next interview, I said-" Well,  . 320 what is your opinion now about vaccination ?" "Well," he said, "if I had not seen it in my own family I would not have believed it." The above evidence is borne out by many witnesses, some fayourable and others unfavourable to our views, during the recent epidemic. The simple facts that nearly all the smallpox cages, and by far the greater proportion of deaths, are from the vaccinated section of the community, are singularly confirmatory of a doctrine which is destined to force its way into the public mind. Truthisa plant of slow growth. A Cry for Help from Boston. We give below an extract from a letter received from Mrs. Bruce, of Morningside Cottage, Marion, Plymouth County, Massachusetts, United States, and addressed to J. J. Garth Wilkinson. The fight is beginning there in earnest, and we are glad of it. If anyone wants to know what it is to establish any human invention, doctrine, or practice, vaccination furnishes, in convenient compass, a perfect instance for study. <A thing beastly in conception, and in the end tyrannical and diabolical in execution; overriding love, and home, and life, as it passes on; a thing disproved by its utter inefficacy, branded with destruction, and deaths constantly recurring ; yet being established and endowed, it now stands for ages, privileged to word and work deceit, and to propagate ill; with a brow impenetrable to light and fact, and shameless as the churches and inquisitions among which it ranks. If any of our readers have friends in Boston (America), our papers ought to be sent to them with unstinted hand. "Thanks for the Anti-Vaceinators received last week, prompt tomy need. By the same post came a cry for help and information, from a lady in Boston, on this very subject. I sent the journals, "with other papers and pamphlets. Boston is to be vaccinated ;* and mothers who have till now kept children from the privileges of Boston schools, because of the law that no unvyaccinated child should enter there, have now the sanctity of their own homes invaded, and their children poisoned before their eyes." cr * Compulsory vaccination in America takes a different form to what it does in this country. No unvaccinated child can enter the public schools; and as the schools are all supported by a general rate, the objector has to pay for the education of other people's children, and to provide for the independent education of his own; and this is frequently submitted to. It appears a new Act is now to force. 230 Anti-Vaccination in Canada. Mr. Wheeler, of Darlington, has received a communication from Montreal, on the subject of vaccination. The writer, referring to some letters which had been sent to the Darlington papers by the above gentleman, says :We see that it is not only the doctors who occupy themselves with the vaccination question. The fact is, that it is a social question. All the world hasan interest in guarding itself against the false zeal of doctors who are often more officious than convinced of the truth of the principle which they invoke. Interest, more than conviction, makes the doctors here to act as vaccinators; and I think it is very nearly the same in England, and elsewhere. In lending the force of your knowledge and labour in order to combat with the absurd practice of vaccination tion, you render an immense gervice to society. The medical profession will end up by understanding that it is not necessary to be a physician to occupy one-self with a question as vital as that of vaccination tion. Every good man ought to resist by all legal means the operation of an iniquitous law such as that of compulsory vaccination in England. The vaccination law which we have here is only applicable in towns. This law is not popular, particularly amongst the Franco-Canadian class. Our doctors, except the vaccinators, disavow the compulsory measures adopted by the Bwureaua de Sante.* I hope before long this practice will be abandoned ; and the observance, with its swite of vaccinators, will be laid aside among other unwholesome things. Many of us desire to possess the journal-the Anti- Vaceinator. Be good enough to undertake the charge of sending it to the undermentioned addresses. *The Offices of Health. A Handle for Anti-Vaccinators. The Ashton Reporter, for July 13, has the following paragraph :-'' An important discussion on the vaccination question took place in the House of Commons on Wednesday, on Mr. Pease's motion to lhmit the penalties imposed on parents for not having their children vaccinated. He said he fully subscribed to the statement which appeared in the- report of the Committee which had been appointed on the subject, that smallpox was one of the most terrible diseases as regarded the danger of the infection, and that it was the duty of the State to enforce vaccination ; but, at the same time, he cited a number of cases in which children were reported to have died, or to have suffered severely from; the disease, in consequence of having been improperly vaccinated, or through   [November 16, 1872. vaccination by means of infected lymph. We quite agree that compulsion in such cases ought . not to be a sham whereby the rich may evade the act by paying a penalty for the first refusal - to vaccinate, and the poor man forced to. carry out vaccination because he has not the means to evadeit; but we do contend that there should be a better guarantee given to the public as to the purity of the lymph. Onespeaker declared that an unvaccinated child was a nuisance to society : perhaps he may be right, but a ruined child is a source of heartburning to the parent. At the present moment, parish doctors take lymph from children indiscriminately, and it is transferred to healthy children with, in some instances, the most deplorable consequences. Our attention has lately been called to a case. A few weeks ago Mr. Henry Lambert, of the Mechanics' Arms, Market-street, had a healthy and lively child. Under the compulsory clauses of the Act it has been vaccinated. What has been the result? The fine healthy child has been ill ever since the operation. The matter began to dry, and the child's neck became affected; and at the present time its head and face is one mass of corruption. We can readily imagine the feelings of the parent under such circumstances; and we repeat that unless there can be some guarantee given that the lymph has not been taken from a diseased person, the compulsory clauses of the Act should be put an end to." Dr. Tripe and Vaccination versus Cleanliness, We publish the following extracts from a letter by Mr. Baker, addressed to the Hackney Board of Works, of which Board Dr. Tripe is the Medical Officer :- "The hackneyed statement that the non-vaccinated died in greater proportion than the vaccinated, 1.€., as cause and effect, may be better credited when Dr. Tripe and his scientific brethren are able to say-'We saw 1,000 healthy and robust children, born of parents free from taint, well nourished and brought up, with every attendant sanitary advantage, no overwork, no overcrowding, no dirt, but under the influence of healthful exercise, free ventilation and cleanliness; nevertheless, they were not vaccinated, and in the course of so many years 900 of these were attacked with smallpox, of whom half died. On the other hand, we saw another 1,000 children, born of unhealthy parents, left to the care of neighbours or juvenile hirelings, ill-fed, unwashed, who were brought up in greatly overcrowded hovels, and never knew what pure air meant; but had been well vaccinated, with four good cicatrices on each arm. 'The smallpox raged around these children, of whom 100 only were attacked, and two only died!' Let them prove such facts, and we may listen to them. But so long as, in addition to the poison influences described as attaching to our second thousand, numberless infants in town- slum populations and elsewhere are notoriously born in such a diseased and weakly state, with such a slender thread of life, that no doctor, however enterprising, dare add a feather's weight to the load under which the wee ones struggle for breath; and then, though these stagger on a few months, or years, the first effort which nature is able to make-in the shape, probably, of smali-pox eruption--takes them, happily, to their graves; when again and again we are told that such deaths are attributable to non-vaccination, who does not sicken at this medical, professional, scientific, suggestio falsi? '' And when to this we add the patent fact that in all these 'medical' statistics the numberless deaths directly resulting from vaccination among our second and third infantile examples-(for, remember, about half only of such survive their tenth year)-but registered as erysipelas, diarrhoea, eczema, syphilis, &c. &c., are never even so much as hinted at, who is not filled with righteous indignation at the equally scientific suppressio veri? '¢ Finally, when parents are told that British law will compel them to fall down and worship this idol which these medical men have set up, with not the smallest respect towards their reason as human beings, or to their consciences as accountable to God, do we wonder that millions are becoming tempted to renounce their nationality ?"' fee. Lomeet ina Fog. The Lancet for October 5 contains an address by Dr. W.S. Playfair, at King's College, London, on "The Profession of Medicine." The Doctor gets excited on recounting the remarks frequently and truly made, that medicine has made "absolutely no progress to boast of," and " which can for an instant compare with that of other professions.' The learned gentleman, at a loss for an instance, furnishes (of course) the "single immortal discovery"' of Dr. Jenner, which he says saves no less than 80,000 lives every year 'on these islands,' and 650,000 per annum "an the continent of Europe.' It is difficult to make out the difference in the saving. One would imagine that the saving of 80,000 "in these Islands'' should represent at any rate 200,000 per annum saved in continental Huroye, according to proportion of population, and what doctors sing of the ancient ravages of natural smallpox! 1 think this 'is drawing a long enough bow, but the editor of the Lancet can more than match it, for in the face of the recent: epidemic, he says:----" Anything more clear than the advantages of vaccination, and anything more hojyeless than the intellectual condition which does not perceive them, we cannot imagine. We confess we had almost given up Anti-vaccinators as hopeless."' The readers of the Auti-Vaccinator know something of the Leeds smallpox Hospital. The Lancet finds that Leeds has been no exception to the rule that vaccination is of immense value. Curiously enough, it acknowledges that of 55 patients reported to have been vaccinated, 31 died. for the life of me, _ I cannot see the value of these cases. Perhaps the Leneet will explain ? A. W. A Voice from New Mexico. Anticipating a visit from the smallpox, the editor of the Cimarron News of April 20, 1872, has a leader, from which we extract as follows :- Already considerable alarm is felt amongst us at the reported approach of smallpox : possibly before these lines are in type something more than its reported approach may have been chronicled. Ag scarcely any disease excites such alarm and horror as this, it naturally follows that every one who speaks of it, and every paper that refers to it, is full of preventive and precautionary ideas. First and foremost among these comes vaccination ; and to hear and read all that is said about it, one would suppose that such a thing as a vaccinated patient having the smali-pox was never heard of. Care, isolation of patients, courage, cleanliness, - these are your safeguards : vaccination never did, and never will, of itself turn the wave of the infection. We were in London all through the late visitation, and the deaths in smallpox cases averaged the half of the vaccinated patients. At the same time, let every man who thinks vaccination a good thing, and believes that he and his should be vaccinated, let him take the precaution, by all manner of means, but let him not neglect the greater precautions. ----- a Vaccination Certificates: A Doctor Committed to Prison, At the Inverness Circuit, on Tuesday, Thomas Black Webster, a doctor of medicine at Dunvegan, Skye, was charged with having, in his capacity of "'vaccinator"' for the parish of Braccadale, fabricated false certificates to the effect that certain children had been by him succeasfully vaccinated, knowing the same to be false; and lodging them with the registrar for the district. There were in all 23 charges of this nature, ranging over the period from the 2nd March, 1866, to the 9th March, 1871. The parents of all the children named in the various charges were examined, and deposed to their children not having been vaccinated by the prisoner. The Advocate-Depute withdrew four of the charges. In the other the jury returned a unanimous verdict of guilty, but recommended the prisoner to the leniency of the Court, owing to his previous good charaeter. Lord Neaves sentenced the doctor to four months' imprisonment. Cases Sheepshed.-On. the evening of the 30th Wit: a society was started here to protest against the Compulsory Vaccination Acts. The place of meeting is at Mr. J. Ward's, A. V., Charley-way. 250 the Ant-Vaccinator, as November 15th, 1872. "6 Nemo his vexarit debe eadem causa.''(r) A. Latin proverb saith-'' Happy is he who is skilled in tracing effects up to their causes." Possibly there was smallpox, but there was certainly no vaccination, in the author's days: if there had, the sentiment had been couched in very different terms. To our mind, disease and death are "effects" of a most impressive and startling order; and vaccination is a *'cause" thereof, and the connection between the two is as demonstrable as the proposition that the four sides of a square are equal to each other: but where is the happiness in protecting ono-self against the effect, or in labouring to teach others the great truths of a discovery in which the future happiness and welfare of the nation is involved? Humanity in its ignorance, its prejudice, and its selfishness, answers in the same way as it did centuries ago; it hands over the discoverer, however grand and beneficent may be the truth which he expounds, to the tender mercies of the law, and visits -him with pains, penalties, and imprisonment. It has always' been thus-the greater the truth, the - greater is the opposition it 1s sure to evoke; and the man who seeks to bless his kind, must expect to find a foe where he ought to find a friend. Priessnitz, who was no cynic, used to say-'' On a dark night I would prefer to meet a perfect stranger, rather than the man whose life I had saved! The doctor was a keen observer, and his sentiment has embodied in it more of truth than satire. He who suffers for truth's sake has this satisfaction-he can claim kinship with men of past ages of whom it has been said--'' the world was not worthy." Persecution is thus robbed of its sting, and retaliation in any shape is a thing to be held in abhorrence; he who can return eyil for evil is *No man ought to be tried twice for the same offence. a sorry specimen of a great Exemplar, and the mass of mankind will never think of him as a true patriot. ; We envy not the man, even though he may be '' Guardian of the Poor," who in the sublime depths of a mistaken zeal, can give utterance to the official threat, that rather than the conscientious objector to a heathenish rite should not obey the law, ''I would fine him seventy times seven."+ Would you? We are sorry to know that a grey hair can be found on a head guilty of a thought like that; more sorry still to reflect that eternity itself, with its sad commentaries on '"'seyenty times seven," can be near to such a soul as yours! Canst thou answer the Eternal '' one in a thousand" ? If thou canst, then presume to measure thy stripes by '' seventy times seven." We have a word of advice to you, and to others like you, who may have the temerity to entertain your temper, but the cunning to refrain from giving expression to it in words-'' With what measure ye mete to others, it shall be measured to you again." Another Latin author has said-'' The extreme of justice is often the extreme of injustice." It is so with regard to the repeated penalties under the Vaccination Acts. Never was there a greater piece of injustice in this world than when the Court of Queen's Bench put an interpretation upon an Act which the framers of that Act had never contemplated, and thus gave a power to oppress which no previous Act ever dared to embody. Perhaps the judge was an Anti-vaccinator, and thought it wise, by giving exceptional and inquisitorial powers, to bring the Act into speedier disrepute, for he could not possibly have devised a more certain method of securing his object. Guardians and magistrates have alike fallen into the trap, and, by extreme measures, have hastened the disruption of an art they sought to protect. By means which are un-English and tyrannical our enemies have contributed to their own discomfiture. It is said-'' Coming events cast +See Report of Guardians' Meeting at Leeds, Anti-vaccinator, page 208. November 15, 1872.]  . = their shadows before." In some districts, both magistrates and guardians have refused to summon a conscientious objector more than once. All honour to such men! they deserve our praise. At the risk of giving offence in high quarters, they have challenged the punishment which he often meets with who dares to be honest with his own conscience, when his convictions are in direct opposition to a law which must retain a certain authority so long as it remains unrepealed, but which, it must not be forgotten, in its spirit is more permissive than any other enactment with which wo are acquainted. 'The Vaccination Act admits of a plea of ''a reasonable excuse,' and it shields the administrator of the law by saying that he may, ''if he see fit," punish a man, who questions the wisdom of the practice sheltered by the Act, once, bué no more, or not at all. The President of the Local Government Board has said that if it were left to him to decide as to punishing a second time for one and the same offence, he should '' not see fit." Mr. Maurice Dear, the Chairman of the Newport Board of Guardians, has said that he will not consent to punish twice for one offence, and that if the Guardians disapprove of his conduct, he is ready to place his resignation in their hands. Statements like the above have a meaning. Toleration has not yet become extinct. Oppression cannot always rear its ungainly head. Liberty-the liberty of a free people-is not a toy for even statesmen to trifle with ; and when its prerogatives have been trampled upon, it has at times been awfully retributive. The Anti-vaccinator's cause is just. The eternal principles of truth are his 'shield and buckler." fle shall '' reap" if ''he faint not." By patient labour, circumstances, however threatening and obstructive, are yet the creatures of his will. That which is disputed to-day, may be an acknowledged fact tomorrow, so rapid are the strides of truth when the mind is prepared and ripe to receive its message. Often do the spirits of great events stride on before the events ; and in to-day already walks to-morrow.- Coleridge. The mortality from smallpox from 1722 to 1798 was not a misfortune or a visitation, but an error of the wildest description,-such an error that the Faculty would be glad if tho memory of it could be effaced. By inoculation the death-rate from this one disease was made to assume proportions which appal the understanding. The physician lamented the terrible devastations of a disease which in his ignorance he implanted with one hand but could not cure with the other. The minister of religion, with uplifted eyes and his form prostrate before the altar of the Most High, implored a deliverance from a pestilence more to be dreaded than the direst plagues of Egypt, little dreaming that it was not the Deity of the skies, but man's mischievous interference with the laws of nature, that was the real cause of the disaster. The cry of the newly-made widow, the wail of the child bereft of both its parents in one day, and friond mourning the death of the friend of his heart, pierced the air in sorrowing lamentation ; and all this woe and death, which the pen of Macaulay failed to give but the faintest outline, was a calamity of man's own creation! Language is too poor to paint the sum of all this self-inflicted misery, and the future historian of the fallacies of the present age will one day chronicle the fact that we were wise enough to detect the fault of inoculation, but could not discover that in vaccination we were perpetrating a crime and a folly, which, if not worse, is quite as bad. Can it be conceived that if there were not some potent force influencing and acting upon the health of the people, the march of death would not be arrested, and that the mortality from all diseases would not be less now than it was thirty years ago? What is the use of preaching sanitary reform, of insisting upon building bye-laws, of spending millions of money in the construction of waterworks, of pulling down the rookeries which infest our large towns and cities, of purifying the waters of our rivers, of heaping up debts for the next generation to discharge in connection with our drainage and sewerage, of educating the people, of inculcating habits of temperance and cleanliness,-if we are to reap no benefit from it in the shape of a diminution in the general mortality of the nation ? If there were no disturbing element affecting the health of the community, the death-rate ought to be sensibly decreased year by year; and that is not observable (forgetting, for a moment, that there is a positive annual increase), then there is a cause for it, and a sufficient and ascertainable cause, somewhere. In this matter there are, doubtless, many. causes in combined operation to produce a result so general and fearful; but of one thing we are painfully conscious-yaccination stands in the forefront, offender. We hesitate not to say, that until the Vaccinator is arrested in his career of folly and wickedness, all our efforts will fail in checking the onward march of death, as Vaceinator lays waste our fields, and consu the princepal nes our harvest by ''sowing tares among the wheat;"' and no pencil but that of Gustave Doré could so well depict the malicious satisfaction that sits on the countenance of Death, as the destroyer computes the spoils of an art that mars God's best handiwork, and peoples the grave with it victims. Horror of horrors! to think that this is done in a Christian land, and under such sanctions as those which surround and protect this abominable rite! Our: first duty is to retrace cur steps; " to wipe out the law-the plague spot- that disgraces our civilisation, and to teach th people to trust in themselves, and not to a clique whose interest is in direct antagonism to that of the community at large. Wve Lelieve neither in prophylactics nor specifics. The religion which should guide our. life, and the life of the nation, is embodied in two words- ''Godliness"' and ''cleanhness;" and he who places himself under the protection of these two guardian angels, has no need to fear either plague or pestilence. If, on the other hand, we believe in filth-whetber that be vaccine virus or unsanitary surroundings - neither Jenner, nor the whole of the profession in solemn league assembled, nor God Himself, can save us from disease and death. God cannot deny Himself; His laws are as fixed as   {November 15, 1872. the eternal hills. In nine cases out of ten, disease, properly interpreted, means the transgression of nature's beneficent laws, and the sin of the wrong-doer is sure to find him out, and leave him 'without excuse." The sooner we accept that position the better will it be forus. No profounder quack ever walked this earth than Edward Jenner; and they who tread in his footsteps, and force upon the people of this country a piece of deception like that involved in Fae OY will lose "a pearl of great price" when the discovery is made that 1 so doing they have sacrificed the confidence of Gah nation. The Anti-vaccination agitation is exceptionally an agitation where reason and thought ha ra to be appealed to, and must be brought into exercise before we gain the addition of a single now adherent. We cannot trust to a popular cry to help us much. '' Cheap Bread," was the thin end of the wedge, when Cobden and Bright carried ''Free Trade," and the sight of a three-penny loaf shortened their labours by many a year. Then, again, the class interests against which we have to do battle are of a aifferent order. We have to fight against men wo are well educated, men who have possession of our homes and our confidence; and the people, as a rule, are naturally prejudiced in their favour. In the Free Trade campaign the landed gentry and the farmers were enemies whose strength we could reckon up; but to bring our forces against men of science who occupy the first places in our colleges, universities, and | learned societies, 1s a totally different affair. The only consolation is, that truth need not fear the armour, the weapons, or the character of her assailant. Worsted, it may be, in many a battle, truth is always the victor at last. The history of the successes of truth is one and the same in all ages; and the experience of to-day is but the record of what transpired a century ago, and what will occur a hundred years hence ''when the grass over our graves is green." The utter dispersion of the art of Vaccination is to us an accomplished fact: it is ours to live and to work up to it. November 15, 1872.) UBS oe & Subscriptions towards the Fines and Costs incurred by W. Clarkson, Selby. In reply to the Appeal in our last number, the following amounts have been received :- New Church Friends at Saltaire, per JMS. 5 per 0 0 0 A i Gras we Jno: Pickering | pt et | = Ooo Vaccination Costs. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. -Sir,-There can be but little wonder how few, comparatively to those who really object to vaccination tion, are to be found carrying out their objections before a court of law. I have ascertained the costs connected with the recent prosecution of Mr. Fox, of Dewsbury, and give the particulars below, viz. :- lng (8s ed Information and Summons ...........66+ O23 20 has Mr ee W HMNGSSES Sattar. s-2 cee nena esos oO 3 1 @ . Service and Attendance ......... --.e+- 035.0 COMMPIGMIATIG < oc cnccen ae. ceecoresesser rene se O22 Dr. Watts (Public Vaccinator) ......... 010 6 Three other Witnesses (1/6 each) ...... On 446 RORENTOULOIN. coc coc cen ce sccioessanseseea. nese a0% OZ 20 Pema y ice none obo nso oso tee. vaste to ne ene Lin O 0 2 ALO4 6 The Vaccination Inspector actually summoned a child of Mr. Fox's, only 8 years old, to try to obtain from him the name of the unvaccinated child. Comment on such procecdings is needless. It is enough to know that an act like that 16 a disgrace to a civilised community. Is it a matter of wonder that, with costs like the above, thousands -ayc, and tens of thousands-of working men, who have as strong an objection to vaccination as Mr. Fox has, are deterred from appearing in court? How could they pay? The thing is impossible. And yet the authorities, here and elsewhere, talk of having stamped out all opposition! Have they? Nonsense! It is all bosh! It is not stamped out; it is smouldering, that is all. It shall one day, ere long, burst into a blaze, and in that blaze Jennerism shall be purged out of the land.-I am, yours respectfully, A Son of Toil. Dewsbury, Oct. 21, 1872. The Vaccination Act.-Charles Lister, merchant's clerk, of Burton New-road, was charged by Mr. J. Broughton, vaccination officer, appointed by the Board of Guardians, with refusing to obey an order of the justices to have his child vaccinated , and Charles Hopewell, boilermaker, was charged with a similar offence. They were each fined 10s., including; costs.- William Wardley, painter, of Motherby-hill, and John Clarke, bootcloser, also of Motherby-hill, were charged with a like offence, and an order "ns made upon each of them to have the operation puriurmed 'upon, their, children within i4 days, and each. to pay 6s. 6d, costs.  . See is mrs ge A ty ' pete te te nh ne the the reer trae nen reir ea = | D2 re) + On W. K. Forster, Esq., M.P., on the Vaccination Question, To the Editer of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-On Friday evening, the 27th Sept., the Vice President of the Council met his constituents in the St. George's Hall, Bradford. It was a wild and stormy night; but electors and non-electors crowded the hall, and patiently listened to their worthy member while he discoursed to them on those great and important measures with which his name has been more or less associated, and which have occupied so much of the attention of the public during the last twelve months. The Ballot Bill, the Washington Treaty, and the Geneva Arbitration, were critically revi. wed, and after these, the strife that is now going on between capital and labour, both at home and abroad, met with its fair share of consideration. All the statements and arguments he urged were simple, truthful, and earnest, as all his utterances. After his speech was ended came the questioning. The following report is taken from the Bradford Daily Telegraph, of Sept. 28:- "The Chairinan having stated that if any one desired to ask a question, now was the time to put it,-Mr. Dawson said that an important committee had considered, a short time since, the subject of vaccination, and the right honourable gentleman was a member of it. He was astonished that the law remained as it was, after the evidence that had been given before that committee, and he wished to ask Mr. Forster would he vote for the repeal of the law which sought to compel a parent, im violation of his conscientious conviction, to vaccinate his child on the pain of repeated penalties or imprisonment ? Mr. Forster replied th:t he had been a member of the committee the session }vfore last, and was of opinion that while nothing would be more likely to do harm and cause death than the absolute repeal of the Act, it would be desirable that there should not be the repeated convictions that there were at present. He would not detain them by giving his reasons for this opinion. He brought in a Billon the subject, and the session before last it was thrown out by the House of Lords, A similar Bill was brought in by Myr. Candlish, the member for Sunderland, this year. He would have voted for it had it come toa division, but he had advised Mr, Candlish not to press it to a division, for it was clear that an enormous majority of the House would have voted against it, and would have done himself and his Bill a great deal of harm. Mr. Mitchell, an operative from Saltaire, asked why the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the operation of the Vaccination laws, stated that vaccination was a good thing, in direct opposition to the evidence given by three doctors and a clergyman? 36 Mr. Forster said that it was quite true that three doctors and a clergyman gave it as their opinion that vaccination did not do much yood; but the overpowering evidence was that it did good, and that probably without vaccination smallpox would spread over the country, and that was his opinion." Now, from the observations of the Honourable Member, one thing is clear-he is yet under the influence of Stmon-omania. On this vaccination question he is still in his long-clothes, and his nurses dare not trust him out of their sight,-nor will they do so for some time to comeif they can help it. Mr. Vorster thinks-or, more correctly speaking, he entertains the notion which has been put into hig head-that if the Vacvination Acts were totally repealed, ''nothing would be likely to do more harm, and to cause death." A very awkward and incomplete sentence, Mr. W. EH. Forster, and one which springs from a total misapprehension of the surroundings of the case. The speaker was not at home in his subject. He has long since tormed a foregone conclusion, and he clings to it as a drowning man clings to a straw. There is one redeeming feature-Mr. Forster objects tocompulsory legislation, to the extent of doing away with repeated fines and imprisonments; and on some points it is to be regretted that his Bill of 1870 did not pass. His advice to Mr. Candlish not to press the Bill of 1872, better known as Mr. Pease's Bill, to a division, was sound and judicious, under the circumstances. Mr. Mitchell asked the Hon. Member how it was that the committee on the Vaccination Acts could report vaccination to be a good thing after the important evidence heard against it. Mr. Forster replied that the evidence in favour of the rite was overwhelming: but he neglected to say that the committee closed their evidence without hearing one half of what the Anti-Vaccinators could have said, and he entirely omitted to inform his audience that the evidence against vaccination was given by medical men who, against their own interests, had abjured the practice, whilst those who spoke in favour of it were men who are interested in it and committed to it. Mr. Forster's statement that without vaceination we should probably have smallpox raging throughout the country, is singular enough, seeing that with vaccination the disease has been raging for nearly two years, and to control or mitigate it vaccination is as helpless ag a row of ninepins. The Hon. Member said he hardly knew whether the meeting would like him to go into the pros and cons of vaccination. It would have given much satisfaction to a great number of his constituents if he had done so, -particularly the cons, inasmuch as the cons, beyond statements of opinion, are matters about which he has not said much. If Mr. Forster could escane the influence of Simonism and Seatonism, and breathe a purer atmoshere, he might be a more useful helper to the AntiVeenoe movement. As the continual dropping of water wears away the stone, so the continual   (November 15, 1872, dropping of better thoughts into his ear may in time evoke a different class of ideas to those which at present afflict the Member for Bradford. The. smallpox Jogie is upon his brain, and it sits as heavily there as a nightmare upon the chest of a dyspeptic patient. How very different the question will appear when he has comprehended the great fact that vaccination, which is smallpox matter, produces its like, and that the smallpox, to all intents and purposes, is nurtured and multiplied by the very practice which he in his ignorance employs and enforces as a protection against it. If Mr. Forster does not see it in his way to re-introduce a Bill to repeal the clauses under which cumulative penalties are enforced, the next time he comes among his constituents they will have something to say. There is a strong under-current of opinion on this question in Bradford.-I am, sir, yours respectfully, A Bradford Burgess, and a Supporter of 3 Mr. Forster. Does Man Live out '' Half his Days"? To the Editor of the Antt-Vaccinator. Sir,-In a recent number of the Anti-Vaccinator it is stated (or assumed) that the natural life of man is only 70 years,-a common error, which I would here correct. So far from it being true, I believe the natural life of man to be 100, if not 120 years, as would appear from the 8rd verse of the 6th chapter of Genesis, where it is written- My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh ; yet his days shail be one hundred and twenty years." And we must hence conclude that deaths occurring before that age is reached (unless from accidents), arise solely from neglect of sanitary conditions on our part, or that of our ancestors. The causes of disease. are all included in the category of filth, foul air, foul and improper food, want of exercise, and immorality. Every disease can be traced to some of these conditions; and in their avoidance -not in poisoning the blood, as recommended by men who should blush to call themselves phystctans-lies the sole remedy for all and every disease. When an enlightened. public recognises the truth of this great fact, the vaccinator will be scouted from one end of the kingdom to the other, and find it perilous work to ply his odious trade. The law of animal life' is said to be this :- that if it requires a certain number of years for an animal to reach its full growth, it should live to an age equal to six times that amount. Man requiring 20 years to come to full maturity, should accordingly live to 120 years. It is true that the Psalmist mentions the age of man as three-score years and ten; but he only historically notes the age usually attained in his time-the result of his observation ; November 15, 1872.]  . 237 which only proves that even at that early period the life of man had degenerated from its allotted span. Man isa frugivorous animal, and the nearer he keeps to a frugivorous and farinaceous* diet, the less liable he will be to every form of disease. Animal food is one of the predisposing causes to every form of fever and zymotic disease.-Your obedient servant, Medicus. November 13, 1872. * See the first chapter of the Book of Daniel, verses 8 to 16, inclusive; also '"'Graham's Science of Life''- passim. Query Waiting for an Answer. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-The Pall Mall Gazette, May 2, 1870, has the following paragraph :- Tt is satisfactory to find that we manage some things better than in France. The medical papers of Paris report a severe and unabated mortality from smallpox -132 deaths during the week before last, and similar returns for several preceding weeks. It is instructive to note how completely successful has been the Scotch Vaccination Act, which came into operation in 1864. In that year the deaths from smallpox were 1,741 ; next year they fell to 383; next year to 200; then to 100; and in 1868, for which the completed report has just been published, to 25. 'Thisis due to the fact, that under the compulsory powers of vaccination which the Act confers, 88°3 per cent. of the infants born were vaccinated. When a similar complete protection is afforded for England, as under the recent law will soon be the case, we may hope to see equally good results. Do the smallpox statistics of 1870-1-2 confirm this hope? and if not, in what number of the Padl Mall Gazette is the error corrected, and the avowal made that we do not ''manage some things better than in France'? Perhaps the editor of the Pall Mall Gazette will answer me in the next number of the paper.-I am, sir, yours truly, October 29, 1872. Waiting for an Answer. A Doubt from Australia. Is Vaccination a Delusion? The South Australian Register, published at Adelaide, and dated July 16th, 1872, has a leader under the heading-'" Is Vaccination a Delusion?" The editor publishes, in his article, the following letter, which he says is from 'a Correspondent whose opinion is entitled to respect, and whose identity will probably be generally recognised" :- Is Vaccination or Re-Vaccination, or Both, a Preventive against smallpox? To the Editor of the South Australian Regisier. Sir,-Your correspondents, Drs. Duncan and Carey, the members of both Houses of Parliament who have expressed their opinion, and the Press generally, insist upon vaccination as a safeguard against smallpox. One would suppose, from the unison with which all cry ' Vaccinate' and "Re-vaccinate," that the efficacy of vaccination was a thing believed "semper, whique, et ab omnibus." But there are thousands of intelligent people in England, and among them not a few medical men, who look upon vaccination as not only not a preventive against smallpox, but as a most pernicious and dangerous practice, and who speak of the vaccine matter as a "filthy and destructive poison." Hosts of tracts and pamphlets are issued from the English press: against vaccination. The opponents of vaccination are sufficiently learned and numerous to support a magazine, the Anti-Vaccinator, which strenuously urges its readers to refuse submission to the orders of magistrates, on the ground that obedience would endanger the lives of their children. I am not skilled in medicine, and have no strong opinion one way or the other. I have, however, had smallpox, though vaccinated when a child, I have also known those who have been re-vaccinated take the contagion a short time after. And if the statement of the Rev. R. Caven, a B.A. of London University, in the extract I send you, be correct, that in Prussia, though "every child is vaccinated and re-vaccinated, the deaths from smallpox have been three times greater than in London ;"' and if the child of the gentleman who paid the fine was really '"'murdered by law," then I think to trust to vaccination, or re-vaccination, or both, is a delusion. Medical science has yet to discover the true preventive for this fearful disease; and no parent ought to be compelled to have his child-vaccinated. I thought the extract might be interesting just now, and hope that some of our experienced medical men will enlighten your readers who, like me, may think there are two sides even as to the value and safety of vaccination.-I am, sir, &c. dies dus. The statement, and the case of death, referred to in the above letter may be foundjin the Ant¢- Vaccinator (No. 1, page 9), in a communication from our correspondent, Rey. Rt. Caven, B.A,, of Southampton. The Editor of the journal then proceeds to demolish '' the fallacies upon which its conclusions are based," showing-firstly, that good lymph must be used, or injuries may result; secondly, that ''J. L. P." is ignorant of the fact that the statistics on the subject show conclusively the immense benefits of Jennerism ; 238 thirdly, he reproduces the '' disfigurement" ghost, and the equally absurd calculation that 100,000 lives are saved annually by vaccination. The Editor pretends to discover the "' fallacies" of his opponent, but he cannot, of course, detect hisown. We are glad to see, however, that the Anti-vaccinator has roused public attention in a country so remote. We hope our friends will send it to the uttermost corners of the earth.- Ep. Ae. Vs P.S.-We have now on the table the South Australian Register for August 12, 1872. It contains a second letter from 'J. lL. P.," a column and a-half in length, on the statistics of vaccination, quoting the opinions of Dr. Garth Wilkinson, Dr. Pearce, Dr.&Collins, Professor Newman, and other authorities. has evidently obtained the Report of the Select Committee on the Vaccination Acts. If this should meet the eye of "J. L. P.," we hope he will correspond with us. It is desirable to know how the agitation in Australia 1s progressing. The Increase of Lunacy in Ireland. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-We are told that Iveland is a perfectly vaccinated country; but if it is, it seems from the enclosed that, pari passu with vaccination, an alarming increase in the number of its lunatics is occurring. What relation they bear to each other as cause and effect I leave your readers to determine. --Your obedient servant, Oar els Millicent, Co. Cork, Oct. 31, 1 72. The Twenty-first Report, just published, puts beyond all doubt the unpleasant fact that the number of lunatics in this country, and their . proportion to the general population, is continuously and not very slowly increasing. A quirter of a century ago there were only 12,397 insane persons in Ireland. On the last day of 1871 there were 18,327. If we take into account the decline of the population in the interval, it will appear that while the insane were only 1 out of 661 in 1846, they are lin 300 at the present day. The increase (as we have said) has been continuous, although in some years it has been more marked than in others. In 1871 it was 1,134, being the greatest on record; in 1870 it was 582; and in 1869 and 1868 it was 648 and 386. The increase is not confined to the registered insane; that is, to those who are confined in public and private asylums, and in gaols and poorhouses,-it is also noticeable, though not so considerable, in the insane at large, who are under the care of their friends and who are enumerated by the | The report before us calls attention | constabulary.   The author | [November 1 5, 1£72. to the phenomenon, but makes no attempt to explain it.- Dublin Evening Mail. [We have known cases where vaccination has ended in lunacy; and we have'no more doubt that that disease ig as transmissible as either syphilis or scrofula. As we advance in knowledge upon this subject strange things will come to light. Vacecination is a. thing of so monstrous a character, it is impossible for us to ssy where the mischief _ends, or to circumscribe or exaggerate its powers for evil.-Ep. A.V.]| Mr. Fox before the Magistrates Again. Mr. W. F. Fox, auctioneer, Dewsbury, was charged at the instance of Mr. Kew, vaccination inspector of the Dewsbury Union, who had reason to believe that a-certain male child, the son of the defendant, | and under the age of 14 years, born within the Union, had not been successfully vaccinated, after notice had been given to procure such child being vaccinated, he having disregarded it. Mr. William Carr represented the case on behalf of the Guardians, and Mr. Ibberson appeared for the defendant. The Magistrates' Clerk having read over the summons, asked-Do you produce the child, Mr. Fox ?-Mr. Fox: I produce a child.-Mr. Carr mentioned the sections under which the case was proceeding; and Mr. Kew, vaccination inspector, was called and examined by Mr. Carr.. He said that he was appointed inspector, and on the 2nd of September gave notice, but had not received any certificate showing that the defendant had complied with the law. He served the notice et Mr. Fox's house, where he saw a child in its night-dress, and he had every reason to believe that the child was not vaccinated. Harriet Smith was examined, with the following result:-I believe you live at Savile Town ?-Yes sir. Are you a midwife?- Yes. Do you know Mr. Fox?-Yes. And his wife ?-Yes. Did you attend to his wife on the birth of the child ? -Yes. about how long ago?-Can't fell, sir. Is it a year ?-It may be a year anda half. Is it two years ago ?-I can't say how long it is: I did not keep count. Can't you fix a time?-No, sir. Is it three years ago? [Mr. Ibberson objected to Mr. Carr cross-examining his own witness.}| Do you recollect being here in June last?-Yes. Do youn recollect saying--Mr. Ibberson: I object; we are summoned here under an entirely different section. After some further remarks, Mr. Carr said: I only wish to refresh her memory. Mr. Ibberson: + object to you putting words into her mouth.- Examination continued: Will you tell me, Mrs. Smith, where the child was born.-I can't. Will you tell me what-What do you mean? Did you go to Mr. Fox's house?-Yes. What time of the November 15, 1872.]  . Ba day ?-Perhaps seven o'clock in the evening. Was it light, or dark?-I don't know. Not very light nor dark. Were the days long ?-I can't tell whether they were long or short; I have plenty to do to think about my own affiirs. Did you see Mr. Fox ?-Yes. Will you tell me what passed ?-I can't tell. Was Mrs. Fox delivered of a child ?-Yes, sir. Where was it born?-I can't say. Did you go anywhere with Mrs. Fox?-Yes. Did you sce Mr. Fox there when you went away ?-I was at his own house. Did he put you in a conveyance :-Yes. Was it a cab?-Yes. Which way did you go ?-I can't tell. What time were you put into the cab? -I don't know what time it was. Was it eight o'clock. nine o'clock, or ten o'clock ?--It might be a little after eight. How far did you go; and how long were you in the cab ?-Perhaps two hours. And then the cab stopped ?-Yes. Didit stop at a house ?-Yes. Did you get out of the cab ?-Yes. Do you know the name of the person occupying the house ?-No, sir. Was Mrs. Fox put to bed P-Yes. Was she delivered at that house?-Yes. When ?- About eleven o'clock. The same night you left Dewsbury ?- Yes. Was its girl or a boy ?-Boy. What is its name ?- Never heard it. Was it a public-house?-No. Have you any idea where it was?-No. Did you go through the turnpike ?-I ean't tell. How long did you stop at this house ?- Until the next night. Did you ever go out of the house ?-No. Were you brought back to your own house, or Mr. Fox's house ?- Mr. Fox's house. When did you last see the child?-I have never seen the child since I was here before. Have you seen the child frequently since it was born ?- Perhaps three times. Has the child been vaccinated? -I cannot tell. Mrs. Elizabeth Wilson said she had never seen the child since March. It was in arms then. She did not know whether it was a boy or a girl, and could not tell what its age was. Frank George Fox, a little boy aged eight, son of the defendant, said he had a little brother; did not know its age; it could not walk; it was well; but was not at home now, and he did not know when it went away. He did not know what they called it ; it had nota name. He did not know whether it was christened. He did not know where it was, but had not seen it since Sunday. His father had been at home every day that week.- - Dr. Watts, public vaccinator for the Union, said he had not vaccinated any of Mr. Fox's children. Mr. Armitage suggested that the summons might be amended. Mr. Ibberson protested against this, and said that as it was a discretionary matter, he hoped the Bench would not consent to such a proceeding. He condemned the act of a child eight years of age being asked by the Guardians of the Union to give evidence by which his father might be sent to prison. The summons haying been amended, on the sanction of the Bench, to read "a male child of the age of from one or thereabouts," Mr. Ibberson submitted that for several reasons the evidence given could not hold water. There was not a tittle of evidence to show his client had not been vaccinated. He reviewed the evidence given by the Vaccination Inspector ; and urged that he might fairly contend that his friend Mr. Carr was out of court in proceeding under a section relating to the child being in.the Union. He urged other points, and submitted that there was not a tittle of evidence on which to base a conviction.--The Bench retired, and after a consultation lasting a considerable time, they returned into court, and Mr. Rawsthorne said- Mr. Fox, you not having produced the child, we shall fine you 20/- and costs; und I may say that it is not only my opinion, but that of .the other justices. - Dewsbury Chronicle, Oct. 12. The Dewsbury Board of Guardians and Wie... W 28s. ECOx: Yesterday, the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the members of the Dewsbury Board of Guardians was held in the Board-room, Union Workhouse, Staincliffe. Mr. William Crowther was in the chair, and the other members present were Messrs. C. Kilner, and C. Sands, (vice-chairmen), T. Thackrah, J. Ingham, W. F. Fox, B. Whittaker, J. Peace, J. Whiteley, E. S. Howgate, B. Wilson, G. G. Waddington, J. Birkby, A. D. Hindley, J. J. Moffat, S. Crawshaw, J. Wilson, 8S. Hirst, and T. Knowles. The Struggle between Vaccinators and Anti-vaccinators. Mr. John Kew, the vaccination inspector, said that since the last meeting of the Board he had visited 76 cases which appeared unvaccinated; four | were vaccinated, three were unfit, and 69 were unvaccinated. To all these he gave the usual notice. There were five fresh cases of smallpox to report-one from Hightown, one at Thornhill Lees, one at Mirfield, and two at Dewsbury. One had been removed to the hospital, where he died. Miles Armitage, of Batley, had complied with the law, but Mr. Fox had been fined 20s. and costs.-The Chairman: What was he fined for?-Mr. Kew: For not producing the child when required to do so. Mr. Fox (smiling): I am very glad that you can give an answer to the question. You are the first gentleman that could tell me what I was fined 'for, (Laughter).-Mr. Peace: Well, you know when the question was asked what Jesus Christ had done amiss, the answer was that no fault had been found in him; yet they cried out, "Crucify him, crucify him." (c) (Hear, hesr, and lavghter.) Now I maintain that if you say " child has to be vaccinated- that if you are assisting the carrying out the death of that child, you ure accessories to its death, its blood will be on your head-(hear, hear, and laughter)-in fact, it 1s breaking God's Law.-Mr. Fox: that Mr, Kew had reason to believe that a child of | I wish to ask the board why the clerk should bring 240 The Anti-Vaccinator. [November 15, 1872. the public vaccinator against me, and ask him two most important questions-" Have you vaccinated Mr. Fox's child? No. Have you vaccinated any of Mr. Fox's children? 'No.' Because if I had a doctor, it does not necessarily follow that I should have any of Mr. Watts's lymph; in fact, I should not. (A pause.)--The answer caused Mr. Peace to unwind himself of an exordium on the suggestion of the prophecy about the " woman giving suck," &c., and coming to be watched in our day, and bringing -into comparison "Saul of Tarsus.'-Mr. Fox mentioned that his little bill at the Police Court amounted to 50s.; £1 fine, and 30s. expenses. He noticed that the 'public spy'' got 2s. 6d. of the expenses, but he supposed that would be "by way of 'norpings.'" But to return to the subject-if they wished to get at the truth as to whether his child was vaccinated or not, they must bring to the court all the doctors in the conntry. He complained of vindictive feeling; in reply to which the Chairman said there was a disposition on the part of the Board to deal generously with Mr. Fox, and he denied that any person was actuated by any vindictive feeling. Mr. Fox read an extract from a Leeds contemporary, bearing on the case of Mr. Pickering, who had been repeatedly summoned, and argued that there was only the Board of Guardians who had the power of preventing a conscientious objector being repeatedly fined. He asked Mr. Pearson whether two persons suffering from the smallpox, brought into the Union, had not been re-vaccinated while in that state. Mr. Pearson understood that they had been re-vaccinated, but not in the Union. Mr. Fox thought it was as well that it was not so, for their credit's sake. He was glad that the experiment had not been tried, for if it had, it might have been attended with very bad results. If he thought it likely to be tried, he would move that they did not practice it on the poor persons in the workhouse. The Chairman: Exactly so: but we clean out. Mr. Fox: But if they had been friends of mine, and had died, I should have caused an inquest to be held. The Chairman: I think that it is quite an experiment as you say, and it is not desirable to try it. Mr. Fox mentioned that he had sent the following letter to Mr. Stansfeld, the President of the Local Government Board, and in order thatit should get under his nose, he had headed it '"'private."' He would read them his own letter, and the answer to it. To the Right Honourable James Stansfeld. Sir,-As the head of a department in which, as a Poor Law Guardian, I am interested, and more especially upon the vexed subject of compulsory vaccination, I had expected that our Board would have received an intimation from the Government that they did not desire the Local Boards of Guardjians to be continually and maliciously persecuting conscientious objectors to this unnatural and dangerous practice of what is called (or properly miscalled) vaccination, Most of the gentlemen who comprise the Dewsbury Board construe the law to mean that they have no other alternative but to continually fine those objectors, and under the cumulative sections of the Amendment Vaccination Acts we have not a few vaccination Shylocks. Our magistrates, too, seem to imply that: they have no power but to inflict penalty after penalty, and no argument, fact, or reasoning can be construed by them as a reasonable excuse under the meaning of the Act. Would you kindly inform me whether I am right in assuming that Boards of Guardians and magistrates have power to dismiss or deal, as they may think fit, with a parent who has paid one penalty for one offence under the Vaccination Act ? I am writing as a private member of the Board here, but your reply may be very satisfactory to some, and save many whose poverty and not their will consents to their lovely babes undergoing an operation which subjects them to the risk of contracting foul and disgusting diseases, and ofttimes death.-I am, honourable sir, yours truly, Wm. F. Fox. Dewsbury, Sept. 7, 1872. Local Government Board (Medical Department), Whitehall, 8.W., Sept. 23, 1872. Sir,-I am directed by the Local Government Board to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 7th instant, and to state that a parent having been fined under the Vaccination Act, 1867, for neglecting to procure the vaccination of a child, may be proceeded against from time to time as long as the child remains unvaccinated.-(Law Reports, Queen's Bench, 163.) I am to add, that this Board has no authority to interfere with Boards of Guardians to prevent their exercise of the powers entrusted to them by the Vaccination Acts for the enforcement of vaccination.-I am, sir, your obedient servant, as GAC ox, Edward C. Seaton. Daisy Hill Cottage, Dewsbury. A conversation followed, in which the Chairman and other members mentioned that some of the imputations contained in Mr. Fox's letter were not correct, and that they objected to the allegations arguing that tyranny had been exercised.-Dewsbury Chronicle, Oct. 12. Oe see hee as The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months......... sil S00 Do. 12 ny All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. ---- Mr Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. } The Anti-V accinator, and  . ---<$-Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.8., F.8.8., F.8.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinatior, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. Wecemiber 2,0 k3872). [Price One Penny. No. #6. | New Series. Contents, a Page Selections from the Address of Samuel Wilks, IDE RG Ss nicks erase caec cls sen since otis s 241 Medical ''Science'"? and Medical Generosity.... 243 Them Modertm IMWOlOGhi a. .m.cisl=s.s16 > occas ses n0e 244 Defective Sewage, Bad Ventilation, and Disease 244 smallPox Statistics in Manchester ............ 245 'Mo be or not to be" Vaccinated .......-..:. 245 Leeds Critic and the Vaccination Question .... 246 Mr. Dornbusch on Vaccination ...........sss-247 DG tiamel, ENERO sooo sosoconbecudoooenoECOUbOsS 248 Gainsburgh Board of Guardians .........+..+250 Southampton Board of Guardians...........+6Qo Walsall Board of Guardians ........----..ee0252 Mr. Paxton and the Sunderland Board of GRUATATATIS <a) cJoleieiet cies oieke We eyed revere sous) ohecnter rove: erate 253 An Anti-Vaccinator in Court .........s-sesse0: 253 Important Vaccination Prosecution at Leeds .. 254 Selections from the Address of Samuel Wilks, M.D., F.R.S., to the Members of the British Medical Association, at their Annual Meeting, held at Birmingham in August last. With regard to our general notions of disease, I consider that during the last few years our opinions have made a rapid advance. x # % % To suppose that a healthy person can suddenly have an acute arachnitis or acute peritonitis, may perhaps involve an actual pathological absurdity. Even the acute inflammation of the chest occurring in healthy persons under the aggravated causes of wet and cold, are far less common than is generally supposed. When, many years ago, a paper was read at a medical society advocating the early treatment of acute disease lest it should become chronic, I took the opportunity of remarking that an opposite suggestion might have been with more propriety advanced, viz.-the advantage of arresting chronic processes lest they should become acute. There are far more acute diseases carrying off chronically- diseased people, than there are chronic diseases which have had their origin in acute affections. What we might more advantageously direct our minds to, are the insidious and slow-working changes in the organs and tissues, to see if we can grasp these in their beginnings, and check them at their source. What we are too often asked to do, however, is to arrest an acute inflammation, which is an evidence only of the beginning of the end. But thisis what we see through all nature. If events appear sudden, they are but the exponents of some long-anterior hidden causes. The fires of Vesuvius have long been smouldering below, before they issue from the summit; and the earthquake is only the result of the pent-up gases arising from chemical changes which have been slowly going on in the bowels of the earth. In society,an honest person cannot possibly become on a sudden a thief, nor can a contented people suddenly break out in rebellion. <A sane man cannot in an instant become mad; and, as was observed in a late celebrated case, the event which brings the person to justice is but the explosion of distorted feelings long dormant in the brain, but immediately excited by some trivialevent. Although these are views which have been greatly promoted by the advance in pathology, yet the more profound observers had a glimpse of their truth, as had the Father of Medicine himself; for Hippocrates says- "Diseases do not fall upon men instantaneously, but, being collected by slow degrees, they explode with accumulated force." I believe, in teaching, there is no more important fact to impress upon the minds of students, than that diseases come insidiously 242 and slowly; and the circumstances which induce them are those most worthy of attention. In studying how various morbid processes are produced, several circumstances have to be considered, more especially the mode of life which favours them, and the original temperament of the individual, which renders him more susceptible to certain agencies thin to others. I consider it to be no credit to our profession that the doctrine of temperaments has not been (with one or two exceptions) more systematically taught in our schools. 'The value of it, however, is tacitly acknowledged in the importance which the man of acumen and experience attaches to the general appearance of his patient; he sees at a glance when the patient enters his study that he is about to hear a story of a nervous affection, or of symptoms evincing a proclivity to phthisis, or of troubles showing that the patient belongs to the gouty class. He may have nothing more than a rule of thumb to help him, but his experience informs him that the world is composed of different varicties of persons, that each is inclitted to morbid changes in a different direction, and that the tendency to different changes may be dormant, but that the exciting causes are ever waiting ready to awaken it into action. A question here arises- whether these predisposing and exciting causes of diseases are not the same ? for example, let ustake the so-called gouty condition of the body, which is said to prevail more in England than in any other country; and let us assume the correctness of the ordinary theory, that its cause is to be found in tho use of malt liquors, strong wines, and nitrogenous foods What we understand by this is-that these conditions, operating through several generations, induce this particular diathesis. Now, if this be so, it seems reasonable to infer that the same causes, acting in excess in a peculiar individual so predisposed, will develop in him all the outward manifestations of the disease; and, on the other hand, the avoiding such causes would be the means of retarding their development, so that the predisposing and exciting causes would be one. * * *% * x It seems remarkable that with the production, of such men, of whom the country is for the most part proud, we should develop also the individual inclined to consumption. He or she has often a beautiful conformation of body, and a fine intellect, although different from that which I have just described, being more susceptible and refined. It may be that such persons are overbred. They certainly are '   [December 2, 1872. inclined to die carly, but often not before they marry and propagate their kind; if this were not s0, it is probable that the sickly race would be kept under, and in a more natural state of society, would actually die out-that is, where there were no doctors, for the artificial aid so strenuously given to keep alive the ailing individual, tends to preserve its existence. Therefrom arises another large question which must constantly obtrude itself upon the mind of the medical man--whether he is not interfering with the natural laws.of the world. I confess, I do ag others do-shut my eyes to these speculations, and do that duty to my fellow-creatures which is closest before me-attempt to relieve their sufferings; yet it cannot be gainsaid that if the Darwinian doctrines be in any way true, they are applicable to the genus homo as well as to any other race of beings, and that we, by preserving the puny, the' wretched, and the deformed, are assisting in the degeneration of the race. * * ca * We might, perchance, arrest. the tendency to disease; and the highest office of the medical man should be that of custodian of the public health. This is one, I might say, which he has already voluntarily assumed ; and with that exalted view of kis functions which I am glad to say animates our profession, he is always found battling with disease at its threshold, and endeavouring to arrest epidemic disease at its source. In a lesser manner, he should endeavour in his own professional circle to watch the disposition and manners of his patient, and thus he may be able to advise,and guide the children belonging to some of the temperaments before mentioned, into those positions of life which would be advantageous for them. The doctor is shown the precocious child by the fond parent, who discerns nothing but robustness. in its mind and body; but he, with the eye of knowledge, sees already the latent tendency to disease. He may be able to destroy the seeds which might afterwards develop ; or, should he not be able to prevent them striking root, he may arrest their further growth, even though it be true that we are born to die; for, as the poet says- As man, perhaps the moment of his breath receives the lurking principle of death, the young disease, which must subdue at length, grows with the growth, and strengthens with his strength. 4% % as % % There is, however, an altogether different class of affections, arising from causes which attack us from without. To these we are liable; they are the specific, contagious, and epidemic disorders. The difference between them appears to be marked; and their peculiarity arises rather from the nature of the external agent, than from the patient or recipient. To many minds, the phenomena attached to the development. of each of these diseases are so uniform, that they see in every individual example the offspring of a common stock; and they are strengthened in their view by the fact that the virus taken from a particular victim will grow and spread like a seed from its parent plant, They believe, December 2, 1872. |  . 243 therefore, in the possibility of stamping out contagious diseases, just as they might exterminate a particular animal or tree. There are other persons, however, who, whilst believing in the specific nature of these diseases, yet hold that they can be spontaneously generated -as, for example, typhus, from the crowding together of many people; typhoid, from decomposing , veg etable matters; scarlatina, from decomposing blood ; and, according to Miss Nightingalé, smallpox under various conditions of foul air. There are, however, yet others who, believing that specific causes are in operation, yet do not hold that they are necessarily propagated or generated in the animal body, but have an independent existence outside the human frame in the forms of. vegetable germs: for example, the element of cholera 18, according to them, a rice fungus; that of measles a fungus of another species; and the virus of typhoid a third. [f the analogy. at of holds good between the phenomena of these diseases and those of animal or vegetable life, the conclusions would rather be in favour of each particular example of the disease having its origin in a parent source ; and thus, as in the case of every weed in our garden, we assume that a seed has been planted in the soil, and leave it to others to prove its spontaneous g erowth,-so, from oe y of reasoning, in the case of specific eontazious pescaa, we ann leave the onus probandi to those who deny the more cbvious explanation, and seek for another in the doctrine of syoreapeons generation | Whatever may be the view to take, if we regard these diseases as in any way likely to have oe n produced by specific organic particles rapidly rowing in a favourable soil, we cannot regard with any satisfaction the doctrine of _ elimination. According to the generally received views, the virus, as that of smallpox, being inserted into the system, begins to grow and propagate in the soil mal the process of development is complete, if may be to the actual destruction of the soil in which it has flourished. I cannot see anything like elimination in this, but rather a rapid and active growth destructive in its progress. lf the soil be not fitted for it, the germ may wither; but the abortion seems by no ineans due to any eliminative powers in. correspondence to the youth or strength of the patient, but to an entirely different class . of Come pzaste inces. I confess, if I knew the method of killing the virus at its source, or staylug its growth, I should be inclined to do so, rather than foster its development: and if it be true that these specific diseases are due to the introduction of an organism into the blood, then all must agree that this treatment is rational. A ringworm grows and grows wherever the soil is propitious; the itch insect spreads over the body; and the hydatid often swells until its host is destroyed. Cancer-cells divide and propagate until they have killed their victim. which has supplied them with nourishment, and the germs of smallpox will do the same. In none of these cases do I see any special power possessed by the body which can be called eliminative. If the cause, then, of specific diseases be due to germs, and these should be shown, as in the supposed case of cholera, to be nothirg but a vegetable. fungus, the analogy between such diseases and the parasite, as shown by the result, is complete. 'The specific diseases, then, afford another example of what is witnessed throughout all nature-that the life of one is dependent on the destruction of another. There is a constant strugele for existence amongst all living things in creation; they are all living on others, whilst endeavouring to protect themselves and man is not an exception. a bd % (To be continued.) Medical "Science" and Medical Generosity. There is a pleasure rare in being mad, Which none but madmen know.-Dryden. The Zimes quotes an eminent physician, lately deceased, who says that a child affected with scarlatina, is as dangerous as a rattlesnake, or a tiger escaped from a menagerie. We all know the polite phrases used by the Laity towards incredulous Anti-vaccinators during the sittings of the Select Comiittece on the Vaccihation Acts, We were to be avoided as bays of gunpowder, mad dogs, explosive personages, &. &e. Thesé notions are curious, but not original. They add one to the many proofs that the medical mind makes no advance from century to century: for Mr. Lane, in his notes to his - of the Arabian Tales, quotes a saying of the Prophet Mohammed-' Run from the person afflicted swith elephantiasis, as you would from a tiger." Far more in accordance with human feeling i 18 the beautiful and pathetic story which the traveller, Burckhardt, brings from the Arabian desert, entitled '''The Companion's Tomb:'-''In the last century, a Bedotin, returning from the Hadj, was joined: beyond the gates of Mecca by a traveller going the same w ay as himself. _ They reached this spot (7. ¢., where the tomb-.stands) in company, when one of them felt so ill that he was unable to proceed farther, and on the following day the smallpox broke out on his body. In this situation, his companion would not abandon him. He built two huts with boughs of acacia trees-one for his friend, the other for himself, and continued to nurse him, and solicit alms for his benefit from passing travellers, until he recovered. But, in turn, he himself Pecans ull of the disease, and was nursed by his conyalescent companion with oqual kindness, though not with equal success, for he died, and was interred by his friend on the spot, 'where his tomb serves aS a monument of Bedouin generosity, and inculcates benevolence even towards the casual companions of the road." D. 4 244 The Modern Moloch! ''Dogmatism is the battlehorse and armour of fools to screen ignorance." So writes the editor of Leslie's American Illustrated Newspaper. Some years ago, it was the fashionable dogma that vaccination is "accepted" in payment of the debt of smallpox. The astounding proportion of vaccinated persons who suffered in the late epidemic, has compelled the revision of the dogma. It now stands--Vaccination is accepted in '' part" payment. It '' modifies" the smallpox, without ensuring recovery! There is much similarity between ancient and modern superstitions. In either case, their statistics are as devoid of evidence, and as difficult of proof, as their dogmas. One man (at Lourdes-or at La Salette it was a girl) makes a statement; sympathising admirers vouch for his or her integrity, capacity, and unvarying impartiality ; the certified ''statistic" is formed, and believers abound. Anciently, one child suffered for the benefit of the family. Agamemnon's daughter suffered for the Greek army. Now, each child suffers for itself. Superstitions vary from age to age; but ignorance and cruelty seem crystallised in high places. Oliver Wendell Holmes writes :- Where is the Moloch of your father's creed, Whose fires of torment burnt for span-long babes ? Fit object for a tender mother's love ! Why not? It was a bargain duly made For these same infants through the surety's act, Intrusted with their all for earth and heaven, By Him who chose their guardian, knowing well His fitness for thetask. This, even this, Was the true doctrine only yesterday, As thoughts are reckoned. 3 Defective Sewage, Bad Ventilation, and Disease. The public are not aware of the great danger to health from sleeping in rooms situated in sunk flats, or in bed closets, and living in cellars. The foul gases which collect in such places, by poisoning the blood, induce disease, causing death, often preceded by continuous suffering. Neither is the sanitary condition of any house having drains in connection with a sewer to be depended on: the danger is aggravated by the handle of the water-closet, when drawn up, allowing the death-dealing gases to escape in largely increased quantities, and from which scarlet fever, smallpox, typhus fever, diphtheria, &c. are induced and propagated. 'This could be avoided were that excellent invention, the earth-closet, to be   [December 2, 1872. substituted for the water-closet ; or, asin Manchester, where each house has an ash-closet - the ash, separated by a sieve from the cinders, falls into the - hopper, supplying the closet. with deodorising dust. The closet has an ascending flue in connection with the house chimney, carrying off all chance effluvia high above the breathing zone. On economical grounds, were this plan introduced into towns not yet sewered, the enormous outlay on sewers-which by age get more and more dangerous to the community -would be avoided; and, by the great saving of water now wasted, it would pay any water company to supply every house with an earth or ash-closet, earth urinals, and a water-tight ash-pit. From the sale of the solid manure collected-which is easily removed, and without stench, and is 250 per cent. richer in manurial properties than sewage slops-a large revenue might be derived. Another source of saving in the consumption of water, and of economy in soap, &¢., to householders, would be the providing of every house with a rain-water cistern-the rain from the roof overflowing from the top cistern into that beneath it, and so on from fiat to flat, or floor to floor, until all the cisterns being full, the surplus is collected in a tank at the bottom, to be pumped up to the top cistern in droughty weather, and the surplus again descending till it reaches the tank. Would a sane or enlightened person reside in a house haying a drain in connection with a common sewer? The number of cases of illness following the attendance of alarge congregation ina church surrounded by a burial ground, or in a badly-ventilated building, is not remarkable, when we consider that the inmates are inhaling typhus fever gases, collected during the preceding week by the exhalation from the surrounding graves, and from the carbonic acid gas exhaled from the lungs of the crowded assemblage, with, perhaps, a number of the congregation conveying infection in their clothes. Nature warns us by the great death-rate-d50 per cent. or more-in hospitals, infirmaries, &c.-(and the older the buildings get, the more deadly they become)-that it is murderous to collect in a building or ward a number of patients together, the exhalation from the stronger adding virulence to the disease in the weaker, giving them little or no chance of recovery. I will conclude with the eloquent appeal to the humane, on the unsanitary condition of hospitals, by the late Sir James Y. Simpson, M.D.:-''The excess of 629 deaths in hospital practice as compared with rural practice-in our palatial hospitals as compared to our rural villages and cottages-in wards as compared to isolated rooms -is certainly much greater and more prominent than I myself expected when I began the present inquiry. But must the calling of this dismal death-rate go on unchallenged and unchecked? Shall the pitiless and deliberate sacrifice of human life to conditions which ° are more or less preventable, be continued, or arrested? Do not these terribie figures plead eloquently and clamantly for a revision and reform of our existing hospital system?' A. Trevelyan. Tyneholm, Noy, 23, 1872. December 2, 1872.]  . 24.5 as In No. 13 of this Journal, p. 203, we published a correspondence between Mr. Wilcockson, of Manchester, and the Board of Guardians, haying reference to the accuracy of an official return of deaths from smallpox. The statement was to the effect that out of 55 smallpox cases, dating to July 25-26 were vaccinated, 9 doubtful, and 10 unvaccinated; and that 1 of the doubtful and 9 of the unvaccinated died. This return Mr. Wilcockson wished to inquire into, but neither the Clerk nor the Board would give him the necessary particulars. We have received the newspaper report of the proceedings, which appeared in the Manchester Hxaminer and Times of 30th Aug. last, and as it illustrates in a most remarkable manner the difficulties which beset the Antivaccinator at every turn in his endeavour to arrive at the truth, we are only performing a duty to the public, in whose interests we serve, by publishing it in our pages. The Chairman thought the letter was offensive. It was offensive to the extent that the writer wished to inquire into the truth of returns which to him were very questionable indeed, but in no other hght. The Chairman said the Board was always desirous of giving information to a representative man. Mr. Wilcockson is a representative man; and the Board showed its willingness to oblige in the usual way-by declining his request. A Latin proverb says-'' He who flies his trial, confesses his guilt." The Manchester Board of Guardians may take the hint. "The Olerk's smallpox Mortality Return. "The Clerk read a letter from Mr. J. Wilcockson, Miles Platting, stating that he had applied to the Clerk for further particulars as to the smallpox patients referred to in his recent return. From the return he had made, it appeared that out of 36 cases of smallpox in vaccinated persons there were no deaths, and out of nine doubtful cases there was one death, and out of 10 cases in which the patients were unvaccinated there were nine deaths. 'The Clerk had declined further information, except with the sanction of the Board; and Mr. Wilcockson wrote to the Board that he would not rest satisfied till he received the information, and stating that the Clerk's return "appeared to be doubtful and unprecedented. '"'The Chairman said he thought the letter was offensive, and that the Board was not bound to furnish whatever information an individual ratepayer might demand. The Board was always ready to furnish information to any representative man or public body. smallPox Statistics in Manchester. "The Clerk said, as regarded the return, the accuracy of which the writer of the letter had impuened, he had to inform the Board that from further information he' had received, there was a slight correction to make; but that correction was in his favour. The onedeath which he had recorded among the doubtful cases, he was now certain had occurred in an unvaccinated case; 80 that the return would now be as follows-86 vaccinated cases of smallpox, no deaths; 8 doubtful cases, no deaths ; 1] unvaccinated cases, 10 deaths. "The Board resolved to decline the information required by Mr. Wilcockson, and expressed satisfaction as to the accuracy of the Clerk's returns. ''There was no other business of public interest." Eid Avy Vis 'To be or not to be" Vaccinated. In the presence of Unhealthy Conditions neither is Protective. The Newcastle Chronicle of Sept. 26, publishes the following correspondence :- Sir,-I have received the following letter from the medical officer of the Darlington District of the Darlington Union, accompanying the certificate of the death of one of the children of Mr. Peter Kinsley, a labourer employed by the Board of Health, residing in Dalton street, Darlington; and will be obliged by your inserting it in your next issue.-I am, &c. William Wilkinson, Registrar of Deaths, &c. for Darlington District. [Copy. J To Mr. William Wilkinson, Registrar, Darlington. Dear Sir,-There is a melancholy history in connection with this poor man's family which, I think, should go forth to the public. He had six children, two only of whom were vaccinated. Four of them took smallpox; in the two vaccinated cases the disease was mild, and both recovered; in the two unvaccinated cases the disease was virulent in type, and both died. Two others remained unvaccinated. In one the operation was performed immediately, and it has escaped entirely. In the other it was deferred for a week: meanwhile it took smallpox, and has also died. Thus, all the vaccinated ones escape, and all the unvaccinated ones die. I may add that the mother had not been re-vaccinated; she took the disease, but recovered. he father has been re-vaccinated, and, up to now, remains free from the disease. In the face of facts such as these I esteem it positively wicked in some few better-educated individuals prejudicing the minds of the poor and ignorant, and so robbing them of their children. -I am, dear sir, yours truly, W. H. Arrowsmith, F.R.CS. Darlington, Sept. 28, 1872. 246 The letter of Mr. Arrowsmith has something tragic about it, and there is little wonder that sensational journals should transfer it to their columns. A day or two after the above letters appeared, the same journal published replies from Mr. Josiah Thomas, and Mr. John Lucas, from which we quote the followmg extracts :- "T affirm, that vaccination affords no prctection against smallpox;-in proof of which I point to the epidemic of last year and the present one; while numerous facts of a contrary nature could be given in opposition to those which appear in the letter of Mr. Arrowsmith. Let me give the public two or three in confirmation. A tradesman in this town had a family of eight children. The first one was vaccinated according to State dogma. It took smallpox a short time afterwards, and died. 'The other six children were not vaccinated, the parents haying lost faith in the theory. They have grown up to manhood and womanhood without any attack at all. The eighth child was vaccinated, the parents being forced, under pains and penalties, to submit to the operation. Like the first child, it took the smallpox and died also. The second case is that of a working man, with a family of twelve children. Two of them were vaccinated, and had the smallpox in a severe | form, while the other ten, who had never been vaccinated, escaped altogether. Take another case, which occurred in the Gateshead Union. One of the children took the smallpox ; the medical man was sent for; to protect the rest of the family he advised that they should be vaccinated. The advice was followed in every case except one. The eldest daughter refused to be vaccinated. She escaped, while all the others who had been vaccinated took the disease. Where was the protection in these cases? Now, let us come to more important facts. The town of Bridgewater, with a population of less than 13,000, has had a mortality of smallpox double what it was last year in London, and six times ereater than in London this year; yet, on a house to house canvas 994 per cent. of the population had been vaccinated. Why was smallpox in Bridgewater at all, with all this protection ?"' '¢ Permit me a few lines in reply to a letter which appears in your columns of to-day, signed by Dr. Arrowsmith, of Darlington, in which he gives the case of a poor man who had six children, three of whom were unvaccinated and died of smallpox, | while of the three who were vaccinated two were attacked with the disease and recovered, the other escaping altogether. This is given as illustrative of the benefits of vaccination, and is meant to show the safety of those who have undergone the operation. Let me ask, then, what your correspondent makes of the following:-A poor man, with whom I am personally acquainted, had three children unvaccinated. smallpox visited their humble dwelling, which consisted of one room. The man and his wife | had both been vaccinated, Both were attacked by |   {December 2, 1872. the disease in a most virulent form. He recovered, she died. The three children sleeping in the same apartment escaped untouched, while a widow living'. next door, with five or six children, unvaccinated, had never any signs of the disease in her house. I could give you many a case of a similar description, but would neyer think of coming to a decision upon was question of such importance from exceptional evidence of this kind; and I am grieved to find men whose position gives them importance among the pcople, endeavouring to buttress up the practice in such amanner. Before submitting to an operation which so interferes with the lives and health of the community, we ought to have the clearest and most unmistakable evidence that it is beneficial. In order to arrive at this, we must not jump at conclusions with eagerness, because a few exceptional cases here and there favour our theory. We must dive deeper, and strike out wider, taking a broad and comprehensive view of the subject in all its bearings, not confining ourselves to a single family or town, but endeayour to obtain unprejudiced and disinterested information from all countries where vaccination has been tried." The above remarks are a complete answer to the exceptional case mentioned by Mr. Arrowsmith. Let the reader peruse that portion of the evidence of Dr. Collins giyen before the Select Committee of the House of Commons, which appears in the last number of this Journal. Mr. Arrowsmith charges the Anti-vaccinator with ''robbing"' the poor of their children. We know too well who is the robber. We say to the Yaccinator-'' Thou art the man." "Leeds Critic" and the Vaccination Question. In a series of articles on '' manners and customs," one of them is devoted to denounce vaccination. The writer says:- "Among the absurd customs of the present age, the great absurdity cf vaccination stands out' prominently. After all that has been said and written, and after all the inquiries, sham and otherwise, that have been made, the miserable and wicked thing remains, a monument of human imbecility. "* A few years ago children were almost universally inoculated for smallpox, a process which was deemed so great a blessing, that Bloomfield wrote a poem in praise of it, as it was then imagined that by giving the disease to healthy children, we robbed it of its sting, and forestalled the destroyer. Now, however, it.is an offence punishable by law for a person to have his little one inoculated, and why? Because the doctors have declared that Jenner was right, and inoculation wrong. 'They say therefore in effect just this-you may possibly escape smallpox, we know that well enough; but then you may not escape it, and if you get it some one else may get it from you, and somany may have it. We (through Jenner, who was well paid for it) have.found a capiial method of stopping this disease: we have only to make you unclean by introducing a disease from a beast, or from a beastly aman being, previously infected in this December 2, 1872.}  . 247 brutal manner, and we make sure of having every one of you sick for awhile, perhaps for life, and you will probably escape smallpox: at any rate, if you think not, take another dose seven years hence, and there is increased ' probability of your escape then! ~Well done, doctors! you have the honour of an invention that is of first quality. : " Listen, ye people, and of course be obedient. There lurks somewhere in dirty back slums a disease that, like a tiger for his prey, waits to spring on you, and it may kill you. We advise you to begin life well by making your babies //: i may be they will continwe vil, but if not, when they grow up make them ill again: inthis manner they stand a chance to escape, for the fact is, life passed in this way is a race, the goal to be gained is the grave: if smallpox overtake you it may jinish you! Run, therefore, as fast as you can out of its way, and get to the goal too soon for its grasp---you will be safe enough there! Inthe meantime, these same doctors will take care of you (for pay): when you are poorly you must send for them, and if you die without their help, there will be a devil of a row about it! 'Twas but the other day that the Peculiar People showed this very peculiar trait of character; they don't believe in doctors, and they had the misfortune to let some one die without their help, and the magistrate had to settle the quarrel that arose. "Dr. Watts says- 'Fierce diseases wait around To hurry mortals home.' I know of nothing that indicates fierceness so much asa lancet; but why don't the barbers practise blood-letting ? Or why don't the doctors, as they did since my remembrance?' It cured 71 diseases! Oh, that is exploded, like inoculation! Exploded, is it? Very well, if nine-tenths of the practices that are opposed to common sense were served in the same way, society would be a gainer. Only it requires a large quantity of gunpowder to blow them up! Firmness among the masses, however, would soon cure the doctors of their pet schemes, and no mistake."' Mr. Dornbusch on Vaccination. '¢ Pure lymph, as it is called, is nothing but rank poison-rotten, putrid, diseased matter, oozing from a festered wound-a poison which acts upon the human organism as any other poison does. No prophylactic relation whatever exists between vaccination and smallpox. '' Let the people examine the subject of vaccination for themselves; let them think for themselves, and not allow the medical profession to do the brain work for them, and I have no doubt of the result. Vaccination will be found, as I have found it after more than 380 years' investigation and observation, to be a false medical theory, condemned by millions of facts. It is based on the Jesuitic maxim-' Do evil that good may come,' which is as false in medicine ag in ethics. Not one of my children is vaccinated, and never will be: my eldest is 24 years old. 'There are, to be sure, the vaccination laws, with their fines and imprisonments. But a higher law, older than any Parliament-that of conscience "it. and nature-rules uppermost. The right and duty of the parent is to protect his children; and we claim for ourselves and our children lberty of conscience in medical matters as well as in religion and politics. We protest against the State interfering by unjust and oppressive laws, in our domestic affairs-in the interests of Allopathy, or any particular school of medicine, in suppressing conscientious scruples. This is downright tyranny. Let those who like to be vaccinated, have the operation performed, but do not imposeit ona reluctant people. Those who believe in vaccination, let them trust to What have they to fear? Their fears reveal only their want of faith. '' Vaccination affords no protection whatever against smallpox. The only protection against smallpox and other diseases of the same class, is cleanliness. Purity is one of the indispensable conditions of vigorous health. In no single instance has vaccination been proved to possess protective properties against smallpox. Onthe contrary, it has, by lowering vitality and vitiating the blood, been a predisposing cause towards it. These may be unpalatable statements to many believers in vaccination, but let them be refuted: we invite the most searching investigation. Facts are stubborn things. '< There was a time when all mankind believed in the sun revolving round the earth, seeing that it got up in the Hast, and went down in the West ; but Galileo proved it to be an optical illusion. It takes a long time for a new truth to struggle through the immense maze of popular prejudices, hedged in by vested interests; but eventually it breaks through all obstacles-it rises above all opposition. Veritas est magna et proevalebit. And so will it be with the delusion of vaccination, which has been the unsuspected cause of numerous deaths and of lifelong suffering. I have heard many a mother say-* My child was perfectly healthy till it was vaccinated.'"' The above is an extract from a letter nearly two columns in length published in the Hackney Express of the 24th Aug. last. Mr, Dornbusch is a hard worker in the cause, and his testimony should convince those who are 'halting between two opinions."'-Hd. A.V. Vaccination Prosecutions.-At the Sunderland Police-court, yesterday morning, two charges of disobedience to the Vaccination Act were laid-one 'against Jonathan Priestly, of Bishopwearmouth, and the other against Robert Paxton, of Monkwearmouth. The excuse was that neither of the defendants could conscientiously comply with the requirements of the Act, having a horror of vaccination ; and they were, in consequence, fined 10s. and costs, each. Upon hearing the decision of the Court, Mr. Paxton remarked that, as he had told the magistrates a month ago, it never should be done by him as long as he had a hand to lift. .They might pul! the skin off his back, but doit he never would. This is the jsecond fine in Mr. Paxton's case.-Northern Daily Express, Oct. 25, 1872,   [December 2, 1872. the Anti-Wacrinator, = December 2nd, 1872. One would naturally expect that when the three enactments came into operation in the years 1841, 1854, and 1867, there would in those years be some extraordinary fatality from. smallpox to justify legislative interference, such (for example) as that which took place in 1849, when the cholera carried off 53,293 persons, as against 1,908 in the previous year; or, again, as when the same disease in 1854 and 1866 became epidemic, and claimed more than its average share of deaths, and when the mortality rose from 4,419 and 1,291 to 20,097 and 14,378. If there had been such a fearful onslaught upon the diseased life of the country in the years previously to the introduction of the three several Acts of Parliament, then the explanation would have been patent to the "most cursory observer; but in the utter absence of any such circumstances, it is manifest that we must look elsewhere than in the exigencies of the healthy conditions of the people for a plea for these uncalled-for and despotic measures. What, then, is the interpretation thereof? It is to be found in the fact, that of late years the medical societies and individual members of the allopathic faculty have lost no opportunity of seeking to multiply official positions, and to secure appointments payment for which is made by the State. Contagious Diseases Act (so abhorrent to every right-thinking person), the Vaccination Acts, and the Public Health Act, are instances in point. . The British Medical Association, a short time ago, memorialised the Royal Sanitary Commission to bring into existence three other inquisitorial agencies, which (it, is computed) would have involved the country in a useless cost of £50,000 per annum, but would have The | given employment and pay to a large number of the members of their own body. The third agency which they advocated in that memorial was one of so disgusting a character that it must be nameless here. In his Appendix to the Thirty-first Annual Report, the Registrar- General gives a copy of a paper submitted by him to the Royal Sanitary Commission; and in referring to the three agencies recommended by the British Medical Association, he says:- '' My opinions are fixed, and not to be shaken: and, taking a practical view of the three proposed measures, I consider them (however well they may look upon paper) neither wise, just, nor beneficial, but, on the contrary, undesirable, Utopian, and unattainable." And in the concluding remarks he does not hesitate to say, that the measures advocated by the profession proceeded from a desire to secure the '' appointment of hundreds of their body to official positions in every part of the country." It is said that when the tiger tastes human blood his whole nature becomes changed, and instead of seeking his prey from amongst the denizens of the forest, he henceforth seeks it in the neighbourhood of human habitations. State pay is equally corrupting in its influence, both upon men and corporations: and the people, to check this growing evil, must henceforth keep a watchful eye upon the profession. If vaccination were not subsidised as it is, it could not exist for a day; and for all the cost, what better are we? Has the mortality decreased inversely as the percentage of vaccination has increased? Is smallpox stamped out? No; and it never will by any such preposterous means as the profession urge in the practice of vaccination and re-vaccination. During the last 30 years has the mortality from that disease diminished in any shape? Certainly not; nay, the converse is the fact. There can be no doubt that the mortality from smallpox in 1871 and 1872, will far exceed that of any three years of the present century. ''Oh," say the organs of the profession, ''there has been a good deal of bad vaccination of late years!" Is that so? Who 4 December 2, 1872.]  . 249 has done it, then? Not we, assuredly. Is it not all charged and paid for as '' successfully vaccinated?" Of course it is-the Faculty will see to that. If our children are henceforth to be slain by this '' bad vaccination," and we have to pay for it, we ask at whose door the sin les? let not the profession be alarmed, however, lest we should press this point. We accept the blame for allowing the Faculty to continue a practice which is more destructive, and is a greater scourge to nations, than any epidemic or plague that has afflicted our country. Inoculation and Vaccination are twin-sisters -the children of Ignorance and Superstition. For 70 years, dating from 1722, inoculation claimed its annual sacrifice of mistaken devotees. Roused from this sleep of death, the fact forced itself upon all classes that they were sacrificing their offspring at the shrine of a deity more vengeful than any of which heathen nations ever boasted. History furnishes us with no parallel to the useless and mighty hayoc which was wrought by the promoters of inoculation. Better for Lady Mary Wortley Montague that she had never been born! It is said that the medical professors of those days were slow to acknowledge the pretended virtues of the practice; but when they did accept them they asked no more questions, but, with the remorseless instincts of a class of men but half removed from a state of semi-barbarism, they continued the loathsome practice, until an Act of Parliament put an end to a rite which, whilst it was an enormous source of revenue to the Faculty, threatened the extinction of the race. Waccination has now usurped the place of inoculation, and it 1s a practice as foul and fatal. The people have grasped this monster by the throat, and they will not relax their hold until he lay dead beneath their feet. The word '' vaccination," invented by Jenner, does not convey the truth of that which 1s included in the rite: there a falsehood involved in the very term,-for the cow is innocent of the crime imputed to it. 'lhe more is correct technical definition would be '' apostemation :" thus, by taking purulent matter from some source, and after inserting it into the blood of a child, then to produce an abscess; and the repetition of this apostematous operation is what we really effect when we inoculate with the corrupt matter said to have been obtained, in the first instance, from an ulcerous discharge in the heel of a horse, and after passing this through the cow, arm-to-arm vaccination is performed ad infinitum. To vaccinate, therefore (whether the virus comes from the horse, the cow, or the human subject), is to produce an aposteme-in other words, an abscess. Vaccination is an illicit phrase, and is specially employed for the purpose of hiding the truth from our view; but now that the veil is removed, and Jenner is disrobed, we see (to our horror) that the draped statue is, after all, a skeleton; and yet we shut our eyes to the truth, and, like another Cleopatra, we nurse the poisonous asp which in due time is destined to steal away the young life of the nation. Vaccination is a great curse to this land, and occasions as great devastation (in the average of years) as the deadly blast* which in eastern countries, in ages past, is said to have depopulated in a day the district over which it swept. Religious Objection to Vaccination.-Y esterday, at the weekly meeting of the Ashton-under-Lyne -Board of Guardians, a letter was read from Mr. Charles Armitage, a Christian Israclite, stating that he had a child that was not vaccinated, and as, in accordance with the tenets of his faith, he had rather the child was not vaccinated, he asked the Board to overlook the case. His objections were strictly religious.-The Clerk said he had never had an objection of that kind to vaccination before.-Mr. Lawton: Except the Act makes special exemption in favour of Christian Israelites, a reply ought to be sent that this Board cannot alter the law, and Mr. Armitage must comply with it the same as other people.-The Board instructed the Clerk to write to Mr. Armitage to this effect. -Leeds Mercury, Nov. 215, 1872. * Some commentators affirm that this fatal blast, known to us by the name of Samiel, was the agent employed ly the Almighty on that memorable night when, beneath the walls of Jerusalem, the flower of Sennacherib's army fell asleep, but awoke no more, 'The corpses of more than 100,000 soldiers are said to have strewed the field where no | battle had been fought. "250   [December 2, 1872 Gainsburgh Board of Guardians. At the fortnightly meeting, on Tuesday, there were present the Revs. H. Stockdale (chairman), K. L. Bleukinsopp, R. J. Buddicom, J. H. Pooley, sand J. White, and Messrs. Caistor, Mercer, Mawer, Wright, Adams, Hill, Gourley, Williamson, Gamson, Harris, Longstaff, Lawrence, Burrell, Swift, Sleightholme, Brown, Osborne, G. Wright, and Willows. A letter from Mr. J. Lister, of Gainsburgh, was read by the Chairman, as follows :- ; Lea-road, Gainsburgh, Oct. 25, 1872. To the Board of Guardians for the Gainsburgh District. Gentlemen,-A notice served upon me to-day by the vaccination officer, points to further proceedings, on your part, to enforce the compulsory provision of the Vaccination Acts. Before you again proceed in this matter, will you permit me to address you in a few, but respectful, words with reference thereto, more particularly as to the repeated or cumulative penalties which you seek to inflict upon myself and others. I am constrained to take this course, not from any desire to dictate to you, or to question for one moment the legality of your proceedings, but in the hope that I may be able to excite, in some measure, your sympathy for the victims of those cruel and arbitrary enactments. I feel sure that however much you may be individually favourable to vaccination as a practice, and. desirous to secure its supposed protective virtue for yourselves and your families, yet it must be repugnant to your feelings, as Christian men, to be made the public prosecutors and instruments of torture to those who, smarting under the injurious effects of the system upon themselves or their little ones, shrink from repeating the operation ; or those who, after a careful and painstaking investigation of the subject, have arrived at a conscientious conviction adverse to yourown. 'Taking this for granted, gentlemen, is there no loophole by which you can escape from this unenviable position? I have heard it urged that you are bound by the law to prosecute - that you have no alternative: but surely this is an error. To become the mere blind or passive instrument of the law, would be derogatory to your character as a governing and a deliberative body; and the fact of the power being delegated to you, and not direct to the police, proves that it is discretionary, and not arbitrary. Such being the case, gentlemen, is it not open for you to exercise both mercy and forbearance in the administration of the power thus vested in you? It.is the universal feeling throughout the country-even amongst those who consider the compulsory law salutary in its tendency-that the cumulative penalty is unjustifiable and tyrannical. To carry out the law as it stands, means the breaking up of many a good man's home, the incarceration of honest and conscientious victims for whom our jails were never intended. We have seen isolated, but unfortunate, examples of this; but where they have occurred, eternal disgrace and infamy attaches to the perpetrators of the outrage, be they Boards of Guardians or Magistrates. The promoters and framers of this law never intended that such results should follow : and when its tendency was perceived, the very Government who introduced it brought in a bill to repeal the doubtful cumulative clause, and passed it by an overwhelming majority. It is due to one adverse vote in the Lords that this diabolical clause was retained: but such was the feeling-of the Government when the Bill was returned to the Commons, that Mr. Forster declared that had it not been the last day of the session, they would not have accepted the Lords' amendment. Further-that it is not the wish of the Legislature repeated prosecutions should be enforced, is clearly proved from the fact of Mr. Stansfeld, in his capacity of President of the Local Government Board, having restrained the Manchester authorities from further proceedings of this nature. These facts, gentlemen, and the uncertain state of the law, should be an inducement and incentive to you to withhold further prosecutions, particularly as the matter will be brought before Parliament next session. I regret, gentlemen, to reflect that the rigorous action of your Board dates from the visit of the Vaccination Inspector. This action of the Medical Department of the Privy Council in sending down heavily-paid enissaries to hound on the authorities to enforce these Acts, is scarcely above suspicion, seeing that the pecuniary benefit to the profession is so vast. Tam loth to impute an improper motive to any man, buta less decided policy would have been more seemly and decorous. There is another point, gentlemen, that I wish to bring under your notice, and that is-the repeated prosecution of myself and others, whilst there is a considerable number within the district under your jurisdiction liable to prosecution, but who are passed over. Il would respectfully submit that this course of procedure is scarcely impartial, and reflects wunfavourably upon either your Vaccination Officer or your Committee. Ido not refer to this from any desire to see others suffer what I would fain escape from myself; but the fact leads me to presume that personal and improper influences are brought to bear in a case so palpably unjust. Gentlemen, I will not occupy your attention further, but ask you to give my memorial your careful consideration. I plead not for myself so much as for those to whom these prosecutions are a much greater hardship, and who are less able to extricate themselves from the difficulties in which they involve them. Speaking for myself, [may say that I am emphatically a peaceloving citizen, and shrink from the notoriety into which I am reluctantly forced; but in this matter of vaccination tionmy mind is made up. Come what may, 1 will never submit to it. Pains and penalties will never compel me to a course which my whole nature revolts at, and my conscience tells me would be acrime. I have not come to this conclusion hastily, but only after a careful and anxious investigation of the whole matter. I fully believe it to be fallacious in principle, and not only useless, but baneful in its results. That it is useless, is proved by the fact of our being landed so recently in the most frightful epidemic known for half a century, after 70 years of voluntary, and 15 of compulsory, vaccination tion. That it is baneful in its results, is proved by the undeniable fact that diseases of the most loathsome character have been- transmitted to innocent victims in thousands of instances. . Knowing these things, shall i then, take upon myself the responsibility of inflicting upon my innocent and helpless babe the penalty due to another man's sin and debauchery? God forbid! The law that would force this upon me is an infamous violation of my parental rights, and a disgrace to the statute book, an outrage upon my conscience, and a despotism of the foulest type. Gentlemen, if you still elect to move December 2, 1872.]  . 251 the law against me, I shall accept the situation, content to wait till the world shall awake to the miserable delusion. Inoculation was the pet of the faculty for 70 years; now itis penal. So shall it be with vaccination. But should you consider to stay these iniquitous jp roceedings, forbearance in this resp-ct will earn for you the gratitude of conscientious opponents of vaccination, and the esteem of allhonest men. Apologising for the length of my communication,-I am, gentlemen, your obedient poate James Lister. Mr. Brownlow objected to the statement in the letter, that while some were repeatcdly prosecuted, thers were looked over, and s:ud that those children who remained unvaccinated were certified not to be in a fit condition. He thought there were about 20 of such cases. The Clerk (Mr. Oldman) said the Board could do nothing in the matter; the magistrates weie the only parties who could do anything. The Rev. J. H. Pooley saw no alternative than that the law must be obeycd, and that the only remedy for those who were opposed to vaccination was to get the law altered. 'The Clerk remarked that even if the magistrates refused to muke the order, they were open to a mandamus to compel them. In the ordinary course, the vaccinution officers were compelled to make out their reports, to apply for orders, and afterwards report.to the Board; and the whole thing went on with all the reeularity of a machine. If he (the clerk) had convictions like Mr. Lister, and he were a magistrate, he might refuse to conyict, whatever might be the consequence - Rey. J. H. Pooley: But you would not then be doing your duty. Mr. Oldman: I only said I might; but then that is quite another matter. The Rev. J. H. Pooley thought it must be obvious to most of them that without the cumulative penalty the object of the law would be frustrated. There were cumulative penalties in other matters, and if there were not, a person might say he would evade the law by paying, and having done with it. The Clerk observed thit there had been no change in the operative part of the proceedings; that the machinery by which the liw was carried out was the same as it had been for years; and whatever change there had been in any other respect, was simply the result of some agitation. Mr. Mawer spoke against repeated prosecutions, urging that when a person had been punished once, the object of the law was accomplished. This had the effect of inducing those who were simply careless about the matter, to have their children vaccinated : while it showed that those who resisted, in spite of the penalty inflicted, did it from a strong conviction that they were in the right; and he held that they had no right to make a man do what was against his conscience. The Clerk remarked that the proper time to discuss the gencral subject, would be whon Mr. Brownlow brought in his report, | - | | The Rev. J. H. Pooley would not say that the law was altogether good; there were many laws they could not all approve of; but until they were repealed, they were obliged to obey them. A Guardian said the next time there was a similar letter, he would move that the chairman read it to himself-(laughter)-instead of taking up the time of the whole mecting. Mr. Mawer thought it quite right that the lette should be read and taken into consideration. Another Guardian moved that the subject be discussed at present. The Chairman thought that the meeting had no discretion, and that the proper time to consider if any other steps should be taken, would be when Mr. Lister's case was reported upon to the Board by Mr Brownlow. Mi, Mercer did not see what the Board could do, after the notice had been served upon Mr. Lister. Mr, Caistor proposed that when Mr. Brownlow's report-Look is presented on the next board-day, a special meeting should proceed to consider the best policy for the Board to adopt with regard to the Vaccination Act. Mr. Mawer asked if Mr. Lister's summons would then be continued. The Chairman said the mecting would be convened, irrespective of Mr. Lister's summons. The motion was seconded and carried.-Gaineburgh News, Nov. 2. . Southampton Board of Guardians. At the fortnightly meeting of this Board, held at 1 a the Poorhouse on 'Thursday afternoon, there were present - the Deputy-Vresident (Mr. 8... Pearce), in the chair, Dr. Hearne and Mr. J. Cocks, ex-officios, and Messrs. Purkis, Watson, Patstone, Pope, Martin, Histon, Pheby, Tepper, Lumby, and Capt. Corke, elected Guardians, The Vaccination Question. A question having been asked by Mr. Patstone as to whether the instructions given at the last meeting in reference to defaulters under the Vaccination Act had been carried out, Mr. Ure, the officer, was sent for, and said all the parties had obtained certificates of postponement with the exception of two, who were brought before the magistrates on Tuesday last, and were ordered to comply with the law within a woek.-Mr. Lumby: I suppose you want to know whether 1 have been before the " beaks ?''-Mr. Klliston objected to the remark; My. Lumby had no right to accuse any Guardian of being opposed to him in this matter.-The officer said he had another list of detaulters: and Mr. Elliston moved that he be instructed to take the necessary measures in order to complete the duties of his office.-This having being seconded by Mr. Watson, Mr. Lumby moved as an amendment that the persons whose names had been submitted to the Board be not prosecuted in the way indicated, but time be given to them, He 252 did go for the simple reason that he believed, as was just now unwittingly indicated by the vaccination officer, that the Government authorities wanted to carry this Act out without making it offensive. There was no doubt that the carrying out of the Act was effecting such a revolution in the minds of the enlightened, the intelligent, and those who felt the custody of their children a solemn obligation, | that it would soon have to be removed from the | He believed | statute book as a compulsory measure. a very large portion of their medical men were at this moment entirely shaken in their opinion as to the value of the Act, its operation, and its iniquitous clauses: just take, as an illustration, the case of the officer calling upon him (the speaker), knowing very well that his child was suffering from hooping cough, and had been for a long period. He did not blame him, but such men as Mr. Elliston, who in their officiousness would compel him*to carry out the extreme provisions of the Act (" chair, chair''). The feeling in this borough had not yet shown itself in regard to the Act, because of the moderate way in which until now the Guardians had carried it out. Their clerk gave it as his opinion the other day that the Board of Guardians were not compelled to carry out the stringent clauses. Having spoken further upon the question, urging the evil averuing from dirty virus being mixed with healthy blood, he said although it might not be seconded, he felt bound to propose his amendment.-Mr. J. Cocks said he would second the motion, for the purpose of hearing a few more observations upon the question. He himself had a strong feeling against the Act, but whilst it was law he thought it must be obeyed.- Mr. Patstone said he believed Mr. Lumby's child was now 18 months old.-Mr. Lumby: And it will be many years older, I hope, before it's vaccinated. -Mr. Patstone: Then what is the use of giving more time?-Mr. Elliston said Mr. Lumby had taken upon himself to refer to him personally, and he should like to ask whether he came down there to do his duty as a Guardian or not? He took to himself quite as much credit for conscientiousness in this matter as Mr. Lumby, and he would not be a party to shield Mr. Lumby from the provisions of the Act because he sat therefas'a Guardian, and yet vote for the prosecution of other persons who had neglected to comply. Whatever their private opinions might be, he thought they, as Guardians, ought to be very careful not to shield one another, and punish the public for what they themselves neglected. 'The whole of Mr. Lumby's remarks were intended not to shield the people whose names were on the list, but himself ("no, no"). He repeated\it; for if Mr. Lumby had not been mixed up in the matter, they would not have heard a single word from him.-The amendment was then put to the meeting and lost, the votes being. -For, Messrs. Cocks, Lumby, and Purkis, 3; against, Messrs."Tepper, Elliston, Martin, Pope, Patstone, Watson,fand Capt. Corke, 7; neuter, Dr. Hearne and the Deputy-President, 2.-The proposition was carried by an exactfreversal of votes.- Hampshire Independent. The Anti-Vaccinato# and (December 2, 1872. Walsall Board of Guardians. The following Guardians were present at the usual weekly meeting of the Board, held yesterday :- Messrs. Brewer (in the chair), Motteram, Mason, Crapper, Cox, Beech, Hildick, Williams, Mills, Jupp, Strongitharm, Green, and the Rev. W. P. Davies. Mr. Jupp called attention to the case of a child named Dyoss, who had been vaccinated, and whose face, in consequence of the vaccination-the surgeon, Mr. Moore, admitted-would be badly marked. Mr. Green said that if they did not carry out the Vaccination Act, they would have Dr. Stephens, of London, down upon them, for Dr. Stephens had given it as his opinion, that vaccination was the only means for preventing smallpox. Mr. Jupp: It is doubtful whether vaccination is efficacious as a preventive. Mr. Green has told us that Dr. Stephens says vaccination will prevent smallpox; but I think that no one can say so, after reading the statistics of the epidemic in Birmingham, which I have before me; and I regret we have not the statistics of the epidemic in Walsall. From the Birmingham returns, it appears that of the persons attacked with smallpox in that town, 1,939 have been vaccinated, and only 239 unvaccinated. With such facts before us, how can anyone say that vaccination is a preventive of smallpox? In addition to the child Dyoss, there is another case in Little Newport-street, where a child was vaccinated, in compliance with an order by the Guardians, and ever since then the child has been afflicted with periodical eruptions upon its face. Mr. Shore vaccinated the one child, and Mr. Pattie the other. With such facts before us, I think it is wrong to compel people to have their children vaccinated. The Rev. W. P. Davies: Are we not compelled to force the people to have their children vaccinated ? Mr. Cox: That is no reason why we should not investigate the case. Mr. Green said he believed that 19 out of every 20 physicians would say that vaccination is the only preventive of smallpox, and therefore it would be wrong for them to set themselves up in opposition to the expressed opinion of 19 out of €évery 20 physicians. It might be that in the cases referred to by Mr. Jupp, the lymph had not been good; but that was not the fault of vaccination. What was it that stayed the epidemic of smallpox in Walsall ? Did not the doctors say 1¢ was vaccination, and that vaccination was a perfect preventive of smallpox. Mr. Cox: I have never heard any medical man Say SO. Mr. Jupp said that although they had five vaccination stations, smallpox had broken out in every district in the Union-a proof that vaccination did not prevent smallpox. Besides, there were a number of towns in which vaccination had been - enforced to the very letter, and there smallpox had been more violent and more fatal than in the towns where vaccination had not been so stringently enforced. Under these circumstances, and with such December 2, 1872.]  . 253 facts as those to which he had referred before them, he thought they ought to make some inquiry into the subject before compelling people to have their children vaccinated ; and therefore he proposed that the Vaccination Committee be instructed to inquire into the matter, and report to a future mecting. Rev. W. P. Davies: Are we not bound to prosecute? and if that be so, is it not a waste of time to discuss the question ? The Clerk: Yes, you are bound to prosecute. Mr. Jupp: If the thing is injurious, are we going to lend ourselves to be the tools to enforce that injury ? Fhere being no seconder to Mr. Jupp's proposition, it fell to the ground, and the meeting then terminated.- Walsall Free Press, Nov. 9. Mr. Paxton and the Sunderland Board of Guardians.- The customary meeting was held on Thursday, at the new offices, John-street, Mr. Grimshaw presiding. After the disposal of the relief cases, Mr. Paxton, who in the morning had been fined by the magistrates for the non-vaccination of his child, appealed to the Board, and asked them whether it was by their order he had been summoned.-The Chairman said he should obey the law.-Mr. Paxton said it was the second time he had been so treated ; but have his child vaccinated he never would. If the previous treatment was followed up, he would have to leave the town.--A Guardian: But the law | will follow you.-Mr. Storey thought Mr. Paxton's conduct should be received by them as conscientiousness and not as negligence.-Mr. Paxton having repeated his remarks before the magistrates, was challenged by Mr. R. Cameron to explain his reasons, when he stated that he believed vaccination to have been the cause of his wife's death, and on leaving the room exclaimed- My mind's made up, come what will." Mr. Storey said there were other children on the list who were not vaccinated, and he thought it would be a cruelty, under these circumstances, to prosecute that poor man a third time. People had their conscientious views about Church rates, &c.-- Mr. Wake, understanding there were 200 delinquents upon the books who had never been summoned, proposed that they should be.-[A Guardian: It will never be seconded. |-Mr. Wake said it was cruelty, then, to summon a man like Mr. Paxton twice. It was eventually decided that the question be left to the Vaccination Committee, with a request that they furnish the Board with the number of unvaccinated cases now existing-Mr. J. Cameron: And the number of prosecutions that have taken place.-The Clerk said he hoped 'it would not go through the press that 200 cases were existing through the neglect of the officers or committee, but otherwise that they were caused by absentces and people who were yet undiscovered. - After a little further business the Board dispersed. An Anti-Vaccinator in Court. On Wednesday, Mr. George Dornbusch, South Hackney, was summoned at the Worship-street Police-court, before Mr. Hannay, to show cause why he had refused or neglected to have his child vaccinated, pursuant to 34 and 35 Vic., cap. 19. Mr. Shorter, vaccination officer of the Hackney Union, having stated the case, proved the delivery of the notices, as required by the Act of Parliament, and continued : On the 6th Jan. 1872, the defendant registered his daughter, Rosa Francesca, as having been born on the 18th of December previous: no certificate of vaccination had been received, nor any certificate of the illness of the child, nor any other legal objection sent in to him. He had served a notice on Mr. Dornbusch on the 11th June; asecond on the 15th October; and a letter was forwarded on the 24th ult. Mr. Hannay: Now, Mr. Dornbusch, have you any question to ask Mr. Shorter ? Mr. Dornbusch: No. Mr. Hannay: You have committed an offence under the Act of Parliament by not having your child vaccinated. What have you to say? Mr. Dornbusch: I have a great deal to say, and with your kind permission, will state my reasons against vaccination. I came here for the performance of what I consider a public duty, as well as a private one. J am bound to protect my child, for thatis the duty of every man who is a father; and I believa I can preserve the health of my child far better by adopting this course, than by permitting the introduction of vaccine matter into her system. I have studied the matter for 30 years; I have made observations; as amember of the Statistical Society, Ihave read and prepared statistics; I am familiar with the figures, and they, with my experience, have brought me to the conclusion that vaccination is a great delusion, and so far from protecting from any illness, it is one of the most fertile means of propagating it. Amongst my own friends and acquaintances, J can number at least a hundred who have been vaccinated and re-vaccinated, and yet have had the smallpox. In coming here, I am defending not my own case, because the worst you can dois to fine me, and what is a penalty of a sovereign, or even £20? Itis a mere nothing toa man of wealth ; but to a poor man it is very different. For instance-there is one man of whom I have heard, who has been in prison for five months, after having been distrained and summoned repeatedly. I call that downright tyranny: and it is in defence of individual liberty that I came here. I might say that I have the means of evading this summons, but I disdain to employ them; I think it would be a cowardly thing for me to do. This question must be fought out sooner or later; and the sooner people know that by vaccinating they poison their children, -the sooner they know that, and begin to examine and think for themselves, the sooner we shall be able to rid ourselves from it. In my position, I feel a 254 déep responsibility. example of obedience to the law; were there no obedience to the law, society w ould be snapped asunder; and therefore 6, especiilly, peTsous in ay position have a greit deal to perform not to set a bad example to the rest of the community. me coming here I have set not a bad but a good example. i! want people to examine this question for themselvcs, and to assist those who are endeavouring to repeal this Compulsory Vaccination law. 'This is one of the ways by which we hope to be able to achieve our object. We cannot get the assistance of the press-the Zimes, for insta nee, ; rejects, Our arguments; we have a eroat difficulty in making our complaints 'Known in the local papers; and this is the best means at our command to mike our principles known'; and the oftener ,ou call me here, the sooner we shall be able to make a change in the present compulsory law. I do not wish to take up more time, but merely wish to convey to you that I am firmly resolved, whatever mav be the conseqnences, not to consent that my child shall be vaccinated You my fine me over and ov r again; I will pay the moncy, but I call attention, to "this :-Here is a wealthy man whom you fine 20/-, or it may be £5 ; Vie throws it on the table, goes home and dines fust the same, he sleeps just as soundly. But the poor mai goes home, fin ds pethars his bed taken away from eit he is stripped of his furniture, his wife and children have been sent to the Union. That was a state of things that should not be permitted to exist. Mr. Shorter: The law has not been harshly enforced in Hackney. Mr. Dornbusch : | beg your pardon ; youdon't press hard upon me, then why upon the poor m: a ? T-am a fhbnier of the Hackney Board of Works, and of the Sanitary Committer, and I hope ne Be vear to get on the Board of Guardians, when we may be ab le by stop these cases. I hive a medical acxtiBette here, but I will not use it; itisac Cae ate from a medical man, stating that my child is ill and not in a pr oper - 3106 state to be vaccinated. But I say that no ch Jd is able or fit to be vaccinated ; and I do not wish to make use of it. Mr. Hannay: It appears to me vow are qitite aware that if is of no "vai. uddressing to me arguments against the liw. [have to administer the law, and have nothing to do with its policy. I wiil not say ene word by way of reply, though I might do so in respect to stxtisties, iyat simply administer the Act of Parliament. It appears the prosecution do not wish to press the case in any vindictive way, Mo. Dornbusch sayvs-and there iniy be reason in his argument-that it may, in many cases, press heavier on the poor thin on the rich man. I have nothing to do with this, be yond observing that the Court his regar | to the position of parties in imposing fines. As he ied be do not, in: this case, ask for the full penalty, [shall impose a fine of 10/-,and 2/- costs. The money was paid, and Mr. Dornbusch left the court with numerous sympathisers interested in the question.- Kingsland Gazette, Nov. 9, is T know that I should set an The Anti-Vaccinator. and. (December 2, 1872. ination Presecution at Leeds. Mr, Pickering again before the Magistrat:s. On Tuesday, the 19th November, Mr. Pickering appeared before Mr. Bruce, the Leeds Stipendiary, on two separate info: mations which had. been laid by Thomas Holmes, the Vaccination Inspector. Mr. Henry Lampen, the Clerk of the Leeds Buard of Guardians, appeared for the Board. Mr. Lampen: I have to ask your Worship for an order upon Mr. John Pickering to have two of his children vaccinated. One child, Mabel, was born on December 17th, 1869 ; and the other, E thel, was born on the 29th of October, 1871. I will take the case of Mabel first, she being the elder. . Myr, Pickering: It may save time, Mr. Bruce, if I dispense with the preliminaries in regard to proof of non-vaccination. important Vacs! Mr. Bruce: Do you consent to tho order being made P Mr. Pickering: No; I have something to say why it should not be made. Mr. Bruce: 'The child is under the age of 14 years, and you say she has not been successfully vaccinated, and that Thomas Holmes gave notice to you, bein" the father of the child, to have it vacéinate 'd, and this notice has not been complied with ? Nr, Piekering : Yes, sir: Myr. Bruce: That applies also to the other case. Mr. Pickering: Ycs; she has not been vaccinated. i have one or two observations to address to you, sit, and they shall be + ery bricf. I dare say you knw that these Vaccination Acts are, to a very great extent, permissive; they are more yermissive than any other Acts with which IT am acquainted, The Act of 1867, which is not abrogated, but is continwalene with the Act of 1871, eine that (c) the bes trate may, if he see fit,' &e. A shcrt tim "eo, Mr. Stansfeld was asked the questic i-whether the magistrates throughout the country were betnd to convict as often as these cases were Mr ouelht before thom by the Guardians, and he replied --" As far as cumulative penalties 80, were L {he niagistrato, I should certainly not see fit" --nicinine thereby 'he would not enforce the Act after the first penalty had been infiicted. (c) And Mr. F orster, in speaking upon this subject, at Bradford, a short ti ime aco, intimated that the Government was not desizots of enforcing cumulative penalties ; and if it had nut been for the lateness of the session in 1871, the decisitun cf the Lords with regard to the Vaccination Act would not have been accepted, and the Government would have sent it back to the Lords. I may a'so say, that I have written to several Members of Parlianient upon this subject, and I find there is a general feeling amongst those in office, in particular, to this effect- that these cumulative penalties should not be rigorously enforced. The Guardians of the different towns who carry out the law in this way may have OUS December 2.1872.) the opinion that they are bound to carry it out strictly, but discretionary power rests with them as well as with the magistrates. The last time I was here, you very judiciously requested Mr. Lampen to convey to the Leeds Board of Guardians your idea upon this point. You thought that, so far as I was concerned, it was clear that my objections were of a strictly conscientious and intelligent character. Mr. Bruce: I did not say they were intelligent. I think I said they were conscientious objections. Mr. Pickering: You may have forgotten it, but you used the other word too. I have not misquoted you-but I won't press it. I take your word -''conscientious.'' That expression of your opinion was brought before the Leeds Board of Guardians, but they determined to go on with these prosecutions. You further said that you thought the public were satisfied that the Guardians had done enough in my case. Upon that point, I may say that I meet with a large number of the people of this town in different capacities, and, without exception, I have heard the same opinion expressed-namely, that as far as the Leeds Board of Guardians are concerned, they have carried this matter far enough, and that any further proceedings, after your expression of opinion, exhibits a persecuting spirit, and does not arise from a conscientious desire to carry out the provisions of this particular Act of Parliament. Under such circumstances, and in consideration of the fact that throughout the whole country, at the present time, the magistrates are becoming more lenient in such cases, | have more confidence in making this appeal. I observed that during last week, in one town, a magistrate only imposed a fine of 6d.; in another case, a fine of 10s. (including costs) was imposed, so that the fine might be 6d., is., or 2s. 6d.; and ina third case, a fine of 6s. was imposed; and none of 'those cases were like mine-sixth or seventh prosecutions. Mr. Bruce: How many times, for instance, have you been fined with respect to the child Mabel? Mr. Pickering: For Mabel Agnes, this is the seventh time I have been brought before your worship. Mr. Holmes, vaccination inspector : Three times fined, and once as to the other child. Mr. Pickering: Coming before you on the information when the order is made, is practically the same thing as being fined, because the costs really amount toa fine. They amount to 12/- or 13/- each time. Ihave no doubt the costs are perfectly in accordance with the charges of the court; but I noticed a case in London, before the Hackney magistrates, in which the costs were only 2/-. Mr. Bruce: With regard to the costs, I wish it to be distinctly understood that I have nothing to do with them, so far as regards fixing what the amount of them shall be in a particular case. It is not my duty to act as the taxing officer of the court, who is the clerk. In cases where it would be really an act of oppression to take the full costs, I may say that I shall allow so much as costs; but I don't think it would be part of a stipendiary magistrate's duty to tax the costs, 'from the law in regard to vaccination.  . 255 Mr. Pickering: In my cases, I simply say they amount toa penalty. Well, sir, I shall not tronble you with any further observations. I feel convinced from what you said on the last occasion when I was before you, and from the statements expressed by the people of the town, that in the first case you will dismiss the summons; and in the other case, I shall ask you to mitigate the penalty to 6d. and costs. I really think the time has come when I may fairly put it to you to take that course. I don't think the Guardians ought to have put me in this position again. Considering that I have been a member of the Board of Guardians, that I am a member of the Corporation, and an active worker in the other public institutions in this town ; and when the act is inoperative to effect the vaccination of my children, I think the Guardians should not have pressed this matter beyond the last prosecution. Mr. Bruce: There are two ways of looking at the thing. The Guardians may say this-(I don't know what their reasons are, and I don't wish to inquire)--they may say that it is obvious that you stand in a different position from a* poor man who entertains conscientious objections. We are not inclined to proceed against the latter, because to fine him 20/- and costs repeatedly, would really ruin him, or send him to prison; but Mr. Pickering isa man in a good position in society, to whom a fine of 20/- is really a matter of very small moment, compared with the means of the great-bulk of the people. That is the way they may look at the question of position to which you alluded just now. Mr. Pickering : They may look at it in that light, but they would not view it in that light if they were in my position. Mr. Bruce: I can understand that it is a disagreeable thing for anybody. Mr. Pickering: It is a very disagreeable thing ; and Iam very much opposed to coming here from time to time. But you know that not all the concerted action of Parliament itself, under the present laws, will ever make me consent to vaccinate any of my children. It was said before the Guardians, the other day, that sooner than vaccinate my child I would leave the country ; and so I would, I would go to another country where I should be free The law can't make me vaccinate my children; and no Act of Parliament will ever pass to make me doit. The Gevernment are opposed to repeated.penalties, and the day is not far distant when the Acts of 1867 and 1871 will be repealed ; and I think I may ask you to act in accordance with the mind of the Government in this matter. I shall now leave it entirely in your hands. Mr. Lampen: I submit we have nothing to do with the individual opinions of Mr Stansfeld, or Mr. Foster, or any other Member of Parliament. An attempt was made in the House of Commons last session, to meet the views of Mr. Pickering and those who think with him, but the Act was outvoted by a large majority. Mr. Pickering: That is not true. It never went to a vote; the bill was very properly withdrawn. 256 "The Anti-Vaccinator. [December 2, 1872. Mr. Lampen: Mr. Pickering appears as_ the editor of the Anti-Vaccinator journal, whose object the Guardians belicve is to set the working classes in opposition to this Act; and considering that we have just passed through a serious smallpox epidemic, they feel it is their imperative duty to have his children vaccinated. I have, therefore, to ask for the order for this child to be vaccinated, and for the costs to follow the order. Mr. Bruce: Before pronouncing my own judgment upon the matter, I desire to. mention a case which came before the Court of Queen's Bench on the 26th of April last, and which was reported in the Times. Of course, the Times is not an authoritative law report; but still, its reporters are all members of the bar; and, generally speaking, the law reports of the Times are distinguished by great accuracy; and the proceedings in this case I am going to read were so short, that I cannot help thinking that what was said was reported almost word for word. In this case, a gentleman, who had an objection to vaccination had been convicted and fined under the Act, for refusing to have his child vaccinated. The case is as follows :- : In the matter of the Vaccination Acis, In this case, a gentleman who had an objection to vaccination had been convicted and fined under the Act, for refusing to have his child vaccinated. Ona subsequent occasion, the child still continuing unvaccinated, he was again summoned and fined. Mr. Baker now moved, on his behalf, to set aside the conviction, on the ground that the offence was one and the same, and that his client could not be convicted twice ; but The Court was quite clear that this view was altogether untenable. : The Lord Chief-Justice said the continued disobedience to the order was the subject of fresh offences as long as it was continued; and Mr. Justice Blackburn said it might as well be contended that because a man had been fined yesterday for beating his wife, he could not be fined for beating her today (Laughter.) The application was therefore refused. That appeared in the Zimes on the 26th of April in this year, and, therefore, it is clear that, so far as the highest court of judicature in this country is concerned, it was quite according to law, and according | to Mr. Justice Blackburn, not contrary to commonsense, to fine a person in the position of Mr. Pickering. It is quite true that when Mr. Pickering was last summoned, I requested an expression of opinion to be conveyed to the Board of Guardians-that I thought it might be desirable for them to take into consideration whether or not (seeing that Mr. Pickering had been several times fined, and that the convictions had not produced the desired effect in his case, although they had produced the desired effect in nearly all other cases) it was worth while pursuing the matter any further against Mr. Pickering in regard to a child in respect of whom he had } been fined three times. At the same time, I cautiously guarded myself, as I always should do in conveying an intimation of that,kind to any body like the Guardians, against presuming to direct them. I have thought fit to interfere with the Board of Guardians in the matter, for instance, of relief to the poor; but so soon as J found I had no power to interfere, I always refused to doit. Iam of opinion that when the Legislature entrusts a board of gentlemen--be it the Board of Guardians or the Town Council-with certain duties, the magistrates are entirely going out of their proper walk in interfering with those bodies, and thus bring upon themselves a great deal of odium which is quite unnecessary. The Board considered the matter that I caused to be laid before it, and came to the conclusion that it ought to go on with the prosecutions against Mr. Pickering; and I don't say they are wrong or they are right. Itis no business of mine to pronounce any opinion about it. They lay these informations against Mr. Pickering, and he is brought here to-day; and I think I should not be discharging my duty if I did not make the orders that these children be vaccinated. It will be a different question when Mr. Pickering comes here, as, no doubt, he will, some day, for disobedience in regard to these orders, as to what course should be taken-whether, he having been fined three times in respect of Mabel Agnes, the fine should be mitigated the fourth time. That will be a matter of entirely different consideration; and I don't say *how, on consideration, I shall treat it. I see no reason why the order should not be made in this case. I make it with a certain degree of reluctance, but only because a gentleman in Mr. Pickering's position is placed at such inconvenience; but he sets himself up in opposition to the law, which all of us are bound to obey; and if he does not obey, he must suffer, as other people do. I think I am, perhaps, not going beyond my duty when I say that I think the present operation of these Acts is really not such as to secure vaccination in cases where people obstinately set their faces against them. It is quite clear, to a person in Mr. Pickering's position it makes no difference whether he is fined one time or fifty times, so far as securing fines goes. There is this to add, however-that Mr. Pickering, being fined from time to time, may act as a terror to other people, and may induce them to have their children vaccinated. 'The order will be made. Mr. Lampen: The costs will follow the order. Mr. Bruce: IJ shall not order the costs of any witnesses ; the costs of the summons and the order only. : Mr. Holmes : There are no costs for witnesses. The costs, amounting to 17s., were immediately paid, and the parties left the Court. The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- eine copy, for 4 time MUNG are sre sreelorels 1s. 6d. 0. 1 A bedis Met as All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Printed by J, Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-\ accinator,  . Edited by Jno': Pickering, F.R.G.§., F.8.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. KE All Communications to be sent to the Hditor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. £7. | New Series. Contents, Pag Vital Statistics connected with Smalil-Pox and AUK =2 Cai altal Olas cyst overcic ofekercistey ciara ccelouSisisiesciers Siowisre eis O. Selections from the Address of Samuel Wilka, F.R.S. 262 d¥L. +9 Coss ereorseaeerssooeoe72 994904 OO Bicone ALICE. /chste olc/cleinisip's sicisiens so .ee sieseisla ee 264 The Holy Alliance of Medicine and Theology .. 266 Dheselasue Of ViaeCInation Go.s.<.. "cere se sels as 267 The Hlectors of Richmond and the Vaccination QURESHI Tags GucoctsCCO el DC OCOUOASO SCO e spens 268 smallPox according to the Ee oes SIRCLOINE: Nomgdigd 6 OU OCR Be GEICO OCUS OOS ROrCOG Anitij Vaecination at Mlancoln.)..<.¢tesesiecss sss 269 How the Compulsory Law is treated :by the AAMT na clare MeL IN 3 <txce) sVs¥c ale: aver stoi <ctcyeter a s/cie-0 eisiove'e 270 "sie Meneses On WACCINA LION. sid. .+ " vide siecle sees e-ns 270 How to Circulate the Anti-Vaccinator ,.......0. 270 Prosecutions: Newport, London ..,.......,... 271 Vital Statistics connected with smallPox and Vaccination. By Jno. Pickering, F.R.G.S. From the earliest adoption of the practice of vaccination, statistics have been appealed to with as _ much confidence as if the rite depended solely upon figures to establish its value, or to show its inappropriateness as a remedy. Precisely the same error was made, as I have observed aforetime, with regard to inoculation. The history of the rise and progress of that practice has been repeated over again in the matter of vaccination. Indeed, so closely have the arguments resembled each other, that it is to mo surprising how the detractors of inoculation did not see that both arts must stand or fall together ; and that the same set of fallacies underlying one: December 16, 1872. [Price One Penny. were supporting the flimsy fabric of the other. For the like number of years these two fallacies have possessed the people; and the public exposure of vaccination now going on, will, in the end, settle the question as to both, for all countries, and for all time, Wherever statistics have been referred to of late years, the table adroitly constructed by Dr. Seaton has been the most effective and complete defence of vaccination. A fool may, however, put a lot of figures together, and project a theory that a wise man may not be able to unravel or explain. A sophistry based wpon figures may delude mankind for generations, and the more antiquated the observance becomes, the more difficult it is to displace. The table to which I refer, is to be found ° in his '' Handbook of Vaccination," p. 252; and the object which Dr. Seaton had in view, was to illustrate the principle that smallpox mortality had declined coimcidently with the more rigorous enforcement of vaccination. To use his own words, he says there has been a "regular progression in correspondence with the progress that has been made in the adoption of vaccination." Dr. Seaton commences his table with the year 1838 ; for in that year the system of registration was first inaugurated and carried out. Prior} to 1838, London alone kept any records of the mortality of the inhabitants. These are known as the "London Bills of Mortality ;" but they furnish no basis upon which car be calculated the mortalityZof the nation, although that has been attempted. Dr. Seaton divides the period from 1838 to 1866, into three groups or divisions, viz. :-from 1838 to 1840, the three years when thore were no vaccination laws; then from 1841 to 1853, during which nine 4 258   [Deeember 16, 1872. aaa ks see a a Cela aoe aaa Ra Reem less as OM acoeiay a eames eS ahs is see see can Se years the first Act making vaccination "optional" was in force; and the third division from 1854 to 1866, which includes the 13 years when the second Act was in operation, rendering vaccination ''obligatory."' The Compulsory Vaccination Act was passed in the following year, 1867. Tho first three years, 1838 to 1840, it so happened, were epidemic years; and in that period there was a greater smallpox mortality than in any previous three years of this century. Mortality from smallPox, FROM 1838 To 1866 INCLUSIVE. It was an accident, certainly, but it gave countenance to a theory which the artful vaccinator turned to good account. No table which has. yet been published has been so (c) thoroughly deceptive, and so successful in its influence upon the profession and the public. Ready, nay, anxious to accept the inferences drawn from the statistics, neither party questioned the accuracy nor the fairness of the conclusions. The following is the Table to which reference has been made, viz. :DIVISION I. Division Et # itera oe Before the Enactment of {Vaccimation provided Gratui-, Vaocitlation OBligat any Vaccination Laws. tously, but not Obligatory. | PEE NORE OCY CAE cs Sec Et 5 a Year. Deaths Year. Death. 1841 6,368 1854 2,808 1842 Tin = 1855 9,525 1840 10,434 1847 4, 226 1856 9.997 ; 1848 6,903. || 1857 3,936 1849 4,644 1858 6,460 1850 4,665 1859 8,848 1851 6,997 1860 2,749 1852 7,320 1861 1,320 1853 3,151 1862 1,628 1863 5,964 1864 7,684 1865 6,411 1866 3,029 AVGM. ee 11,944 BOG is cy Nee 3,891 DEATHS.... *The returns for 1848, 4, 5, and 6, were not analysed. The most correct calculation would be one based upon the years 1841 to 1866, being the years embraced within the operation of the two first Vaccination Acts. If the Doctor wished to take in the period prior to the passing of any legal enactment, then he should have started from the commencement of the present century. Itanswered his. purpose best to begin with the three first registration years. But let the reader start with 1841, the date of the first Vaceination Act, and run his eye down the figures in Divisions 2 and 3, showing the total mortality in each year, and then say where the ''regular progression, in correspondence with the progress that has been made in the adoption of vaccination,' is discoverable? ''Regular progression," indeed ! when in 1864 the smallpox deaths exceed those of any year since 1841; when the mortality is greater in 1864 and 1865, than in any two consecutive years since 1841; and when smallpox is lethal in more cases in 1868, 1864, and 1865, thanin any three consecutive years since vaccination was enforced by law! The duplicity of the statistician is beyond all precedent. But the doctor shall sees what "regular progression, & correspondence with the progress that has been made in tho adoption of vaccination,' means, before I have done. There are always two sides to a question. We have seen the doctor's side of the shield-let us look at the other side. Bismarck said of the French that he would 'stew them in their own sauce;" so Dr. Seaton must not quarrel if he is fried in his own figures! The Anti-vaccinators have affirmed that if there is a saving in smallpox mortality, there has been a much greater loss in other diseases, which have become more fatal with the extension of vaccination ; so that, instead of a saving, there is only a displacement of mortality, and a displacement that involves a positive increase in the death-rate. The proposition has been denied. The following Tables, showing the mortality from scrofula, syphilis, tabes mesenterica, diarrhoea, bronchitis, and atrophy and debility, are constructed on Dr. Seaton's own model; and the (c) facts which they establish cannot be lightly regarded. The Tables were prepared with the object of laying them before the Select Committee on the Vaccination Acts, if I could have secured a hearing; but as I could not succeed, I now lay them before a fax more December 16, 1872.]  . 259 important committee-I refer to the public-and a committee that will make much better use of them. All the statistics are extracted from the reports of Table 1. the Registrar-General. for their authenticity. Dr. Seaton's and my own)-are from the same source. I mention this as a guarantee Our figures, therefore-(i.e., Mortality from "Scrofula,' and from "Syphilis," from 1888 to 1866 incluSive. DIVISION I. - Before the Enactment of any Vaccination Laws. No. of No. of Year. Deaths from) Deaths from Scrofula. | Syphilis. 1838 LEE 159 1839 Liber 142 1840 1,312 195 AVGE. ANNUAL) Das pee 20S DIVISION It. Vaccination provided Gratuitously, 'but not Obligatory. | No. of | No. of Year. 'Deaths from|Deaths from Scrofula. | Syphilis. 1841 1,198 | Wigs 1842 1,295 178 1847 1,404 565 1848 2,368 877 1849 2,739 5985 1850 2,484 554 1851 2,592 598 1852 2,580 623 1853 2,727 622 Meee eels 2,158 498 Table: 2. 'DIVISION It. Vaccination Obligatory. Year. 1854 1855 1856 1857 1858 1859 1860 1861 1862 1863 1864 1865 1866 No. of No. of 'Deaths from Deaths from | Scrofula. | Syphilis. 2,613 964 2,985 947 2,831 879 3,781 957 3, 004 1,006 2,995 1,089 2,860 1,067 3,457 spe atv 3, 416 1,245 3,277 t= L386 a tia 1,550 2,963 1,647 2,901 1,662 8,091 1,193 Mortality from "Tabes Mesenterica,' and from "Diarrhea," : frony 1838 to 1866 DIVISION 1. Before the Enactment of any Vaccination Laws. No. of | No. of Year. aa - om Deaths from 'Mesenterica. Diarrhoea. 1838 724 2,482 1839 706 2,562 1840 1,044 3,469 AVGE. ANNUAL , DEATHS .... | 824 2,83¢ DIVISION II. Vaccination provided Gratuitously, but not Obligatory. No. of | Year. a i as Deaths 8 ] Mesenterica, Diarrhosa. 1841 1,070 3, 240 1842 1,283 5,241 1847 4,580 11,595 1848 4,368 11,067 1849 4,440 17,831 1850 4,012 11,468 1851 4,510 14,728 1852 4,700 EV GL? 1853 4,965 14,192 sxetimiceotrrinrien' 3, 769 11,886 *||. inclusive. Vaccination Obligatory. Year. 1854 1855 1856 1857 1858 1859 1860 1861 1862 1863 1864 1865 1866 @ 0 @e o DIVISION Ir. (aio aGn ai (a) 'Deaths from No. of Tales 'Deaths from! Mesenterica. | Diarrhoea, 5,638 20,052 4,762 12,770 4,752 13,815 5,380 of Use 5, 017>. 138, 853 4,982, 18,331 4,680 9,702 5,692 18,746 5,203 11,112 5,877 14,943 5,941 16,432 6,698 23,531 6,377 17,1700 ". 65,461 16,280 FA 260   Table 38. [December 16, 1872. Mortality from "Bronchitis," and from "Atrophy and Debility," from 1838 to 1866 inclusive. DIVISION 1. DIVISION I. Before the Enactment of any || Vaccination provided Gratuitously, Vaccination Laws. but not Obligatory. DIVISION IIT. Vaccination Obligatory. No. of No. of No. of No. of 2 No. of 0. of Year. oe from yey te Year. ree eras gees Year. Deaths on Dali ronchitis! ¢ Nebility. Tonohitis| " Debility Bronchitis " Hepility. 1838 2,067 8, 652 1854 20,062 26, 092 1839 1,663 11,285 1855 27,182 | 25,542 1840 2,053 18,238 1856 21,528 | 24,709 1857 25,558 | 27,752 1858 29,093 | 26,860 1859 25,998 27,990 1860 32,347 | 26,930 1861 30,986 | 29,291 1862 32,526 27,077 1863 32,025 | 98,1038 1864 38,969 | 29,6384 1865 36,428 | 82,161 | 1866 41,384 | 31,097 aman | bets TAL 088. |e. an 13,522 20,614 |j.......... 80,810 27,918 From the year 1888 to the year 1866, the increase | 30 per cent. The following Table shows the net in the population of England and Wales, is equal to | increase in the six diseases tabulated above :- Table 4. Showing the Average Annual Deaths from the Six Diseases for which Statistics are to be found in the preceding Tables. DIVISION I. Before the Enactment of any Vaccination Laws. DIVISION IL Vaccination provided Gratuitously, but not Obligatory. | Average Average Annual Deaths Annual Deaths 3 es Name of Disease, 9 Se 1888 to 1840, 1841 to 1853, inclusive. inclusive. Net Increase ...... Name of Disease. DIVISION SETOMUG: sheer as 1,194 CROP w aH. cuss is as 2,153 SCROlIAle \.ais stress Syphilis 2 fie scree ate 165 by phils issues eres 498 {| Syphilis...... Tabes Mesenterica 824 Tabes Mesenterica. . 8, 769 Tabes Mesenterica Diartrhosa scee% 2,837 Diarrhea.,..¢.'..| 14,886 Diarrhea. sires Bronchitis ......4022 1,927 Bronchitis ...... | 13,522 Bronchitis ........ Atrophy & Debility} 11,058 Atrophy & Debility | 20,614 Atrophy & Debility Add 30 per cent.., Deduct... Deduct.... Neb Increase .. ces III. Vaccination Obligatory. : Average Annual Deaths for the £3 Years from 1854 to 1866, inclusive. December 16, 1872.] The net increase of 60,847 deaths per annum, in six death-causes only, is a fact absolutely frightful to contemplate. There is an epidemic influence at work, in our very midst, which in its quiet yet mortal results, sets all our philosophy at defiance, either to detect, to mitigate, or prevent. The plagues of former times are as nothing to it. What is the cause? I shall answer that question at a later stage of the enquiry. There are minor points to settle first. The only reason why I have not given the statistics of the mortality from 1867, the dato of the Compulsory Act, is that the period is not complete. If the Act of 1867 were to be repealed this year, then a fourth Division, or grouping, could be added to the Tables. I can assure the reader that the increase in the six diseases above tabulated, is advancing with the tide of legislation; and tho principle I have before enunciated, that the disease- rate and the death-rate follow the vaccination-rate and the pay-rate, is confirmed and corroborated beyond all doubt. I have not gone into any minute calculation as to the rate per million of the population, as I prefer to leave the sum total of the figures for each year, and division, to tell theirown story. Those who wish for more particular calculations, must make them for themselves; the study will repay them for the labour. The statistics of the diseases mentioned in the above tables seem to point to a period prior to 1838, when they had a beginning, or, if not a beginning, a resuscitation after a state of inactivity and rest. 'When inoculation was in vogue, many of these diseases would doubtless prevail as they do now; and when that practice was given up, say in 1798, the diseases which owed their existence; more or less, to its agency, would in some measure disappear, and the mortality from those causes would decline. From 1806 to about the year 1825, during which vaccination made spasmodic attempts to gain the suffrages of the people, the mortality, with comparatively trifling interferences from inoculation, was left to tell its own tale. But when vaccination became more general, and in 1841 really took the vantage ground formerly in the possession of inoculation, then the diseases which are aggravated or born of the observance, sprang into life again, and have grown with tho diffusion of the practice year by year. It is said that my statistics are not thoroughly complete, inasmuch as there have been changes of nomenclature which may have affected the returns; and that certification of death, which alone can be depended upon, only commenced in 1845. Changes of nomenclature since 1838, or certification which was substituted in 1843 for a loose sort of registration prior to that year, shows the same gradual increase in the mortality of each disease ; and this evidence is conclusive, that for all legitimato purposes of inquiry and investigation connected with the total death-rate, the statistics may be | aecopted at their full value The objections are  . 261 unfair, But Dr. Simon, who started both objections, is under the delusion that by withdrawing attention from the '"lump'' death-rate (to use his own phrase), he can, by splitting the mortality into sections, conjure it away from our observation; and then he coolly informs us that there is no increase, but a decrease, and to prove the assertion, he goes back to the last century. I oonfine Dr. Simon to this century, and to the period when our statistics had their rise, and I tell him to his face that since 1838 "the mortality of England and Wales" has increased-is increasing upon us every year. And I tell him, further, that so long as he and his miserable crew of vaccinators stand at the helm and pursue their horrid and disgusting trade, so long will the death-rate follow the vaccination-rate. Is there any reason to go beyond the prosent century for our statistics? Nay, is it not far more reasonable to restrict our investigation entirely from the year when our first returns were published, in 1838, and down to the present time? What dependence can be placed on statistics which exhibited a great decrease in the death-rate of any one disease up to a certain date-say 1838-if that decrease were not continued, and showed the same regularity im its decline as we have noticed, for example, in the last three cholera epidemics? It is of no use, therefore, and would only end in making confusion worse confounded, either to go out of England for statistics, or to go beyond the point where our own statistics commence and can be relied upon. Confining our attention, therefore, to the registration period, is, for all purposes of contrast and fair argument, the wisest, if not the only, legitimate mode of conducting an inquiry into the operation of vaccination upon smallpox mortality, or in estimating its influence upon the public health. Another objection which is urged is this-that prior to 1838, such diseases, or death "causes," as. '"'phthisis, pneumonia, and bronchitis,' were all included under the head 'consumption,' or "decline ;"' and it is said one can therefore;form no. correot idea as to the separate mortality under each head. Supposing that " phthisis, pneumonia, and! bronchitis" had not been separated, and the mortality had still appeared under tho head of "consumption," or "decline," the statistics from 1838 would not have been altered; we should have had the same deaths under one head instead of three. The change, however, has this advantage-we arc able to ascertain in which of the three " causes of death" the principal mortality occurs. And, further, if it be true, as is stated, that there was a greater death-rate from "consumption," or "decline," during the last century, than what there is in the present day from the three causes above named, that. circumstance furnishes no denial to the statement that from 1838 the death-rate has steadily increased. That the death-rate of England and Wales since 1838-from which date statistics can be at all depended upon-is an increasing death-rate, is a fact which admits of no dispute ; no amount of sophistry can hide it: and the glamour of such men as Dr. 462 Simon and Dr. Seaton, when employed to explain. it, 18 as empty and powerless as their efforts are to control or prevent it. It matters not to us what nosological changes have taken place, nor when certification began : here the diseases are, and the statistics with them; and the steady and progressive advances of the mortality with respect to each is as palpable and appreciable as the ebb and flow of the tides; and the increase is as distinguishable in 1866 as it was in 18389, or in any of the intermediate years. It would be manifestly unfair to compare the mortality during the last thirty years, with the mortality during the same period a century ago-say from 1736 to 1766. The condition of the country and of its inhabitants in the two epochs is as different, in a sanitary point of view, as that which obtains at the present moment between the agricultural population of this island, and the "Ryots of Jessore,"' or between the districts in the neighbourhood of our own coast towns, as eompared with the Nomes situate in the Delta of the Nile. The only comparison that we can admit is that from the time when our statistics are official; and the truest comparison would be that between the two .quinquenniads 1857 to 1861, and 1862 to 1866, inclusive, being a comparison of the population under the nearest similar conditions; and the increase of the mortality is thereby established beyond all question. Every possible amelioration in ,the conditions which should diminish the general disease and death-rates, is daily improving and embracing a wider area, and yet the mortality gains upon us. 'There is a cause undermining all our efforts. Would to God that we could all see it! Here let us inquire-Do the statistics of smallpox since 1888 to 1869-for which years the figures are now incorporated in the annual reports of the Registrar-General--give to the: public a fair and accurate return of smallpox mortality? I answer unhesitatingly-" No, they do not." I am satisfied in my own mind that the statistics for any given year only include a tithe of the actual deaths which ought to be debited to that disease. It is not that I believe the certificates of death are knowingly and wickedly false and deceptive-I have no intention of asserting any such notion. The worst feature of the returns consists in this, that there are "'causes of death"' in such heads as " convulsions;" '' diarrhoea," "atrophy and debility,' and "bronchitis," and some others, which are no causes of death at all; they are merely symptomatic, or after-consequences, sequele of smallpox and other diseases of that type, and ought not to appear as they do now under heads which are so many loopholes' where the faculty may draft off the mortality of diseases of which, as they think, the public had best know the least about it. "Convulsions" and "diarrhcea" frequently terminate the life of a patient whose first disorder was smallpox; and other deaths appear under the wrong ' cause,' and thus the public are deceived. | If the real truth were known, and if every death were credited to the first cause, and not to its effect, the world would be startled to find that smallpox is   [December 16, 1872. as fatal to-day, under the shadow of Jenner and Jenner's disciples, as it was during previous centuries when our countrymen knew little of sanitation, and | forgot to put into practice the little which they did know. And yet, we are perpetually taunted with the insinuation-'' We have no smallpox now as compared with the mortality of the last century." My answer is-'' We know not what we have." 'The figures entered in the annual charge-sheet of death give at best but a poor idea of the true " death causes" of the nation. Unfortunately, we have no means of _ ascertaining the real truth. I firmly believe that smallpox, in one shape or another, including vaccination, of which the virus in use is smallpox matter, is answerable for as many deaths as at any previous epoch. The mortality from the betore-mentioned causes, In our day, is a regular and perpetual epidemic; whilst the smallpox epidemics of former times visited us only at intervals. As truly as I believe in the existence of God, so truly do I believe that thousands of deaths, certified under heads such as "convulsions," 'diarrhoea,' and "atrophy and debility," 'bronchitis,' and others, are really attributable to smallpox inoculation, the new name for which is vaccination. This is no vain statement-no adventurous.prophecy. The mischief of inoculation in spreading smallpox, and in inducing and diffusing other diseases, is now a recorded fact-a chapter in our history which we cannot wipe out or forget: and that being so, who can dispute the conclusion that vaccination is an agent equally destructive and equally mortal? Isay, therefore, that the statistics of smallpox by no means represent the actual mortality from that disease; and to that extent our statistics are defective and misleading. (To be continued.) . Selections from the Address of Samuel Wilks, M.D., F.RB.S., to the Members of the British Medical Association, at their - Annual Meeting, held at Birmingham in August last. (Continued from page' 243.) T have always regarded such terms as 'conservative," 'elimination of disease," "wis medicatrix," as purely metaphysical, and having no place in the vocabulary of medicine. This last term I discarded from my earliest student days, for I well remember when a surgical teacher used the expression with reference to a case of fractured skull, and when, notwithstanding that curative nature was to step in and mend it, the patient was seen on the post-mortem table a few days afterwards with inflammation of the brain, I remarked, in terms which were considered almost sacrilegious, that the man would have lived with a crack in his skull, if nature's "vis medicatrix'' had net stepped in and killed him. a 4% * * * December 16, 1872. ]  . 263 I consider it a disgrace to the profession, that we are not yet agreed as to the best hygienic methods under which the greatest number get well. What, again, is the scientific treatment of fevers? This a few years ago would have been considered decided, if unanimity implied truth ; for amongst other rules, it would have been strictly laid down that whilst the patient should have fresh air, he must by no means be chilled. This idea, however, seems to be a mere phantasm of the human brain, for we now hear that placing the patient in a cold bath is the most successful scientific treatment. So opposed to our notions does the advisability of placing a patient in a cold bath seem, that he who had attempted it years ago, would have almost regarded himself as a murderer, had the patient died; yet now the treatment is considered rational. * * * i * If what I have been saying be true, that changes in the body come about slowly and insidiously, our duty is rather to study how to check their progress, and not to devote ourselves to the treatment of the mere phenomena of the disorder. % 2 = % % What has long been recognised in the case of gout, may be applicable to other diseases, and the relief expressed by a symptom, be much greater than could be accomplished by medicine. "Tho' when small humours gather to a gout, the doctor fancies he has driven them out." I think few would hesitate in saying that the medical man is doing much more for his gouty patient by prescribing a suitable regimen and medicine of that kind which operates on the assimilative organs, than by attempting to releve particular symptoms. In like manner, in a case of early phthisis he would render better service by advising a particular conduct of life, than by giving his attention to petty ailments. In acute affections the same may be - said ; he who treats a typhoid fever, having regard to its natural course and phenomena, would be more likely to meet with success, than he who, as was done in past times, meddled with the various organs of the body, and should order.vinegar rags for the head, expectorants for the chest, and astringents for the bowels. Some of our methods, without appearing §0, may be equally absurd, as for example, what was once proposed to me in a case of strangulated hernia, to defer the operation until the sickness had ceased. Our object should be to get behind the symptoms, and thus obtain a fair view of the case. Some of the most lamentable spectacles I witness, occur in cases of nervous people, who, being treated according to their special wants, have procured for themselves a permanent place on the doctor's sick-list. It is quite true that patients do not want to know anything about pathology: they have their aches, pains, and troubles, and for these they seek advice. It is, of course, the province of the medical man to heed these troubles, and endeavour to relieve them; but, nevertheless, I contend it is his duty to take, if he can, a just and comprehensive view of the whole case, and whilst administering to the wants of the patient, yet not forget his high calling as a scientific man, and act for the general welfare of his patient and of society. He who simply pleases his patient by attending to local troubles, and does nothing but satisfy the prejudices and ignorance of the public, either has not learned the greater truths which his art and science contain, or is simply converting a noble profession into a trade. * * *~ * % Suppose a number of hungry people crying for bread, and blessing their benefactor who continually supplied their wants: he would gain more credit than the man with a large political creed, who devised a political scheme to prevent starvation ; but undeservedly so, for the latter would be the truer philanthropist. So it is with the art of medicine. Apollo was the god of medicine; and why? Because (says Bacon) "the variable composition of a man's body hath made it a body easy to distemper, and therefore the poets did well to conjoin music and medicine in Apollo, because the office of medicine is but to tune this curious karp of man's body, and to reduce it to harmony." lt will be remembered that both the Society of Apothecaries and the College of Surgeons have chosen for their mottoes adjacent lines froma Ovid's "Daphne," in which Apollo says- Opiferque per orbem. dicor,"' and " Que prosunt omnibus artes.' 1 think a text for another theme might be got out of the intermediate line-" Hei mihi! quod nullis amor est medicabtlis herbis,' which might imply that affections having a moral cause, must be treated by moral means. Hysteria, for example, is too often perpetuated by the too officious interference of the medical man. Moral .means often avail when all the herbs have proved futile. Daphne was right in running away from Apollo when he said he was a doctor. % % x x as I have given you a kind of idea of the objects which, in my opinion, a medical man should set before him. He should, in fact, aim at a very high standard-nothing less, indeed, than the improvement and welfare of the material nature of man. If we become the advisers of families and the promoters of sanitary laws in our several towns, our calling isa high one; if we take ordinary cases of disease and endeavour to unravel their nature, our profession can be ranked among the sciences. We are obliged, of course, to attend to the immediate necessities of our patients, for it is by this means we earn our bread, and every man in this world, however high his calling, must submit tomuch drudgery ; but take away our higher aims, and lower us to the pursuit of doing nothing. more than tinker our patients by patching and soldering, our trade is a hateful one. There is no usein disguising a plain fact-that when a man takes no interest in his profession, but is simply working for bread, the practice of medicine is a wearisome business. 264   [December 16, 1872. The Antt-Gaceimator, December 16th, 1872. Were it not that in so many cases the wish is fathor to the thought, wo should sometimes be at a loss to understand how that from tho same events, or the same arguments, two persons so often arrive at such contrary conclusions, and draw such opposite inferences. History furnishes us with many examples where both combatants on the battle-ficld have claimed the victory. In the recent conflict between the German and French armies, many people saw in the first skirmishes that suc-cess was to follow in the wako of the Celt, among whom the correspondent of the Standard was conspicuous for his pertinacity in that opinion; but Sedan and the march through Paris settled the point that the Celt is no match for the Teuton. With regard to the report of the Select Committee on the Vaccination Act, 1867, it is clear, judging from the leaders in tho newspapers, that both parties claim that the advantage lay with the opponent. The Committee was applied for and granted with the declared object of passing an Act, on their report, that would really make a Compulsory Act compulsory. The Acts of 1867 and 1871 fail,. because intelligent objectors choose rather to be fined than to obey the law. And now, after the Committee have taken such evidence as they have thought proper to receive, what is the result? The 'mountains have been in labour, and they have brought forth " mouse! Instead of vaccination tion being compulsory, it is yet permissive. 'The cordon of the law is not to be drawn tighter round the conscientious objectors. The recommendation of the Committee in their report -was, to all intonts and purposes, a concession 4o us. We have fought Sedan, and the final 4riumph will be ours when, before the next (Committee, the evidence we shall produce shall succeed in branding vaccination, like inoculation, an act of "felony." If we had been given a fair chance, we could have materially strengthened our position ; but the Committee did not want all the ovidenco they could get ; they wanted so much, and no more; and when they had got that, they closed the enquiry, and satisfied us that the Committee who shall go into this matter with a view of exhausting the evidence on both sides, and of giving the public a full report on such evidence, has yet to be appointed.* We shall, without delay, agitate for a fresh enquiry. No greater injustice was ever perpetrated than when the Committee determined to take the Anti-vaccination evidence first, and then the vaccination evidence afterwards. The usual practice in Committee is first to take a witness on one side and then on the other, to mix them, and so give each the opportunity of knowing something of their opponent's case, and then a reasonable chance of answering it. The second-and by far the greatest-injustice, an injustice in which the whole community is compromised, because it shows in a most forcible and convincing manner that the evidence taken is totally imadequate to the interests involved, is that the Committee only spent £5. 10s. in connection with the enquiry, the particulars of which are shown at p. 16 of their report. If the Committee had been commissioned to enquire into the merits of some new explosive compound-ora torpedo, for example, to blow an armour-plated ship ''into shivers," with all its freight of human boings-they would have spent thousands of pounds, and would have extended the enquiry to any length of time. The Committeo had twenty sittings, of about four or five hours each. Had that same Committee determined to work up a body of evidence which would have mot with general approbation, their sittings might have lasted the whole sosgion, and the cost of witnesses ought to have been five hundred pounds, instead of five pounds. It isnot often that we have occasion to complain of a Committeo, with unlimited powers, spending too little! , * The Committee turned the enquiry into a sort of trial, and to show how partial they could be, they called for the evidence of the defendant first ! December 16, 1872. | After having read tho evidence laid before | the. Committee, wo are convinced that the public will form very different conclusions to those which have appeared in the principal papers of the day. The misrepresentations of the press would be unpardonable if we did not know that their statements rested upon scraps of testimony, which have been selected for insertion, and which are unimportant when compared with the facts which told upon the Committee, as is evidenced by their report. Our case is eminently satisfactory, and that of our opponents is satisfactory, too, to us, because it  . shows upon what contradictory statements, and upon what slender logic, the practice of vaccination tion is supported. The report, as a whole, is, without exception, the most thoroughly inconsistent document it has ever been our fortune to peruse. Dr. Wilks, F.R.8., in his opening address before the members of the British Medical Association at Birmingham, in August, 1872, overstepped the bounds of professional considerations when he delivered an address having so much of the element of '' common sense" in it. We thank him for his courago in speaking his mind upon questions which few would have selested, and which fewer still would have treated in such an open and honest manner. Dr. Wilks may yet be a '' nature-doctor ;" he may give up drugs, and turn his attention to hydropathy. It will be a pleasure to many of our readers to find in portions of this address a reflex of many of their convictions concerning the present treatment of patients by the allopathic practitioner. It is frequently observed, that if '' vaccination tion is not useful, there can be no harm in it." Popular sayings are often fallacious. It is eminently so in this instance. To sustain existones, it is proverbial to what strange inconveniences nature will accommodate itself. The | scavenger, working for hours in a filthy atmosphere; the tanner at his daily task, breathing an air charged with decayed animal matter, the poorly-fed labourer in the knacker's yard ; 205 where horses are dissected in every stage of disease and decomposition-are apposite illustrations. But these are not healthy occupations, notwithstanding. The same life which sustains itself in comparative health under such conditions, would be immeasurably improved, and perform its functions with more pleasure and power, if transferred to.a more agreeablo and elevated calling. And yet there are men who have asmattering of philosophy, who, reasoning from facts like the above, say that the vaccine virus is inocuous, if it is not useful, in point of health; than which a greater fallacy was never conccived. Poisonous matter, like that inserted into tho blood of a healthy child, is a very different thing to tho inhalation of an atmosphere charged with effete mattor. Nature has a chance of throwing off the latter before it has the opportunity of doing much mischicf; but in tho former case we compel the 'living blood" to absorb the virus, and the poisons secreted in it. This is a distinction to which, surely, too small importance is attached. one would really think that any man having the smallest pretensions to science, would hesitate on seeing the case putin this shape, and think twice before he next defiled (by vaccination) the temple of the human body, which is so ''fearfully and wonderfully made." The vaccinator is a traitor to Him that built this wondrous frame, and must be noted as one of the worst enemies of mankind. When tho Eternal reviowed the labour of His hands, the narrative concludes thus :-''And God saw everything that He had made, and behold it was very good." Alas! too good for an ago when science is prostituted, and put forth'as the apologist of a practice which every candid mind must regard (if the pleonasm may be forgiven) as odious, cruel, and malignant. We assert and maintain that vaccination has had no more to do with diminishing the mortality from smallpox, than it has had to do with reducing the mortality from the plague, or cholera, or any other epidemic disease which in ages past has been the scourge of nations, and which left upon the minds of the people a feel1 266 ing of dread which 'centuries of time have not erased. These same diseases would be as powerful to-day if the same sanitary and unhealthy conditions of hfe existed among us, but they do not; and each year, as improvements are extended in every direction, and the town and village populations are brought under the influence of sanitary regulations, as the people learn the value of personal and domestic cleanliness, as they are better housed and fed, and become temperate in their habits, and as improvements are carried out in the defoocation of the sewage, and in the purtfication of the waters of our rivers, as waste lands are reclaimed and the earth's surface is properly drained and placed under cultivation,-in that same degree will all zymotic diseases diminish in the force and frequency of their visitations. The terror and dismay which seized the people on the approach of smallpox, even so lately as the last half of the past century, was so general and appalling, that we cannot appreciate the story when we read it in the pages of our country's history. And although the faculty make an immense stir when a case of cholera or smallpox turns up, yet the'cry is one which, happily, has but little dread about it, save among a few of the ignorant sort of people, and of whem it is no satire to say that they are guiltless of thinking for themselves, and in a dark night would be as much afraid and terror stricken if they were confronted with their own shadow on the wall. Toreason with people of this description, is a sad waste of time. We must and do appeal to the more thoughtful portion of the community, and of all classes. When they are convinced, the timid and superstitious will follow, and profess to be as consistent and as brave as their leaders. : 'They who sow to the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption." Whilst we do not wish to strain the reference of the text to the rite of vaccination, we say that it apples with equal cogency, and the condemnation could not have been more severe, if it had been as precise as it is prophetic in its utterance. We are sowing to the flesh when we lacerate the cuticle and corrupt the blood with tainted matter which, by vitiating the fount at its source, depreciates,   [December 16, 1872. in a corresponding degree, the health: of the specie(r) and the vigour of their life; and we reap corruption in the shape of numberless diseases which were unknown, or restricted, within certain limits previously to the last 30 years. : 'Cleanliness is next to Godliness." Is it? Then what have we to do with the vaccine virus, with the cow, or with the horse? If God -had said-'' Vaccination is an abomination and a sin against the laws of life," His denunciation might have been more pointed, but could not have been plainer; nor could it have been more suggestive to the understanding as to the enormity of his guilt who submits his offspring to the pollution of this deep defilement. Who is he that dares, in the face of this text, to uphold or defend the mischievous and wanton practice of vaccination? Let him know that the eternal principles of health, involved in the term ''cleanliness," are opposed to his miserable and disgusting quackery. The Holy Alliance of Medicine and Theology. Vaccina has this month taken a higher flight. Sho now appears in a bishop's charge and ina clergyman's sermon. She is entering the domain of theology; she offers her statistics without evidence of their truth, and impatiently demands our implicit and unreasoning faith. In vain, for the smallpox is a creation of the cesspool and the sewer. Itis a functional disturbance of the internal portions of the human frame, caused by the presence and action of recondite vapours from fermenting and decomposing efiluvia, which, in their passage by contagion from body to body, naturally become weaker and weaker, until their final resolution into less injurious combinations. How otherwise can the gradual decline of any epidemic be accounted for? An epidemic causes panic; a panic usually causesa great (often ton deg expurgation of nuisances. Origination de : is thus suppressed for a time; and the con=tagion, in the absence of the pabulum which constituted its original strength, gradually loses its active power. In this connection the following quotations deserve attentive study. Dr. H. Charlton Bastian, lecturing at University College, London, on September 30, remarked that ''in medicine it was well that imperfectly-established doctrines should be from time to time tested by the light of more-recently e December 16, 1872.] acquired facts. 'i f s forty years ago, it would have been deemed rank heresy to profess a disbelief in the prevalent notions concerning the unalterable and ''snecific" nature of cancer and of tubercle. Slowly, butsteadily, these viewshave been undergoing a progressive modification. Hpidemic and specific diseases have many characters in common. 'They constitute a family, the members of which are united by a certain bond of unity. i . Pi The common view, and the one most likely to be true, is-that these affections are, in the main, dependent on changes in the nature and quality of the blood. * * ; It has been argued that the phenomena of the febrile and epidemic diseases are always the result of the action of definite agents or poisons upon the system; but just as there is the best reason for believing that cancer or tubercle may be initiated de novo by the operation of irritants upon the tissues of certain individuals, and that such growths may subsequently be multiphed within the body by the contact-influence exerted by some of these disseminated particles, so it may be supposed not only that specific substances (contagia) may be capable of initiating specific changes in 'the blood, but that certain combinations of circumstances may, by their action upon the human body, entail similar specific changes and states of blood. . < % With regard to yellow fever, he lecturer remarked that when it occurred on land, it had often been found that there were boundaries at no great distance from the tainted district where the disease had not, and to which it would not, spread. . 2 The knowledge which the profession possess concerning the mode of origin of whooping cough, measles, scarlet fever, and smallpox, otherwise than by infection, is almost nil. Among the predisposing causes of smallpox, fever, and measles, the lecturer mentioned bad food, bad water, impure air, &c.; and cautioned his hearers against being blinded by any narrow or exclusive theories which would teach them that epidemic and infectious diseases could not arise de.novo. He recommended them to assign no 'gach limits to natural possibilities, and not lightly to accept theories which lead to supineness. While accepting to the full all doctrines which inculcated the necessity of diminishing the chances of contagion, he advised thent diligently to seek for the causes which engender even the most contagious of disesases. Dr. Bastian's lecture will well repay perusal, for it contains the statements of an independent and thoughtful mind. It is a valuable contribution towards the solution of a difficult problem.  . 264 Thirty or | 'The Plague of Vaccination. Some of the most distinguished physicians and surgeons not only of Great Britain and Ireland, bué of Europe and America, have recently expressed their opinion to the effect that from the greater insusceptibility of the infant healthy constitution to premature poisoning by animal virus, this State-paid process of destroying the natural-functions of our dear children ought now to be delayed until after the period of lactation or nursing-from nine to twelve months, They state that this scientific conclusion is strongly upheld by the most distinguished Academies of Medicine in the world. Now, why és the plague of vaccination ordered to be temporarily stayed, it may be asked by each gentle reader of our National Publiv Health Journal-the Anti-Vaccinator, or Poor Man's Friend? Because they assure us, as a matter of fact in their medical experience and scientific observation, from time to time, to quote their own ipsissima verba -"Children vaccinated thus early are more liable afterwards to contract smallpox!'? Does not this really awful statement involve the most solemn and devout questions pertaining to science and religion- at all events, mcdical ethics? Must "legitimate" doctors in allopathy never be expected to depart from the old, beaten, used-up, murderous routine m respect of compulsory vaccination? Bleeding, Blistering, Salvation, Purgation induced by mercury, Constipation brought on by lead, obstinate skin diséase developed by arsenic, and other fatal 'cures,' amongst the grievous fallacies of our orthodox practice of physic, too numerous even to be glanced, at on the present occasion, stand scientifically condemned for ever and.ever when fairly represented by the indefeasible testimony of Positive Organic Philosophy. I assert, without fear of contradiction by any man of learning and science, that healthy young infants and children, however much exposed to the contagion of smallpox and other infectious diseases, seldom, or never, contract them at all, and are often the only members of a large family who escape with impunity. Why, therefore, in the name of justice to our common humanity, should the plague of vaccination, with sine, imprisonment, disease, and death, uniformly in its train, be suffered to rage epidemically from house to house, from town to town, and from kingdom to kingdom, at home and abroad? The true answer is not far to seek. The general public do not understand and appreciate the facts and observations now being published in the archives of learned forcign and native gocieties for the promotion of natural knowledge; and what is, perhaps, even more lamentable, they are deceived by false statistics and one-sided, fashionable, ex parte asseverations of blind stereotyped "authority ''-heeding not the perverse elasticity of official despotism, and the involuntary exaggeration of Jacks in Johi's 268   a [December 16, 1872. office. Tho constitutional disturbance which accompanies the introduction of vaccine virus into the blood of cach healthy organisation, is not unfroquently very severe. Tho pulse, for example, increases in *} frequency up to the sixth day, and sometimes never declines. 'Thus a man aged 38, and a woman aged 83, have been scientifically experimented upon for four months, together with a number of young children, by Dr. Gustav Wertheim, of Vienna, and other medical philosophers of Germany ; the result inter alia being-that whereas before vaccination the man's pulse was on an average 66, after the mark of the beast it was 78, and has remained so. As for the children recently vaccinated in Liverpool, I may say, from my own private observation, without reference to the many thousands I have seen at the hospital for skin diseases, that the health of hundreds has been thereby permanently affected with intractable forms of cutaneous eruption : emphatically have I seen strumous ulcers rapidly developed, acute ophthalmia, chronio enlargements of the cervical glands, diseases of the scalp, purulent discharges, footid abscesses, and gangrenous inflammation of parts, followed by sloughing, while the throat, especially, of many such miserable sufferers according. to Act of Parliament, together with the palate, uvula, and tonsils, are periodically covered with dark livid incrustations, more difficult to heal than those of smallpox itself, inasmuch as they owe their disgusting origin to the foul exudations of that indefinite, nameless, hideous thing now in course of active propagation throughout the land, yclept vaccino-syphilis. Howshalltheplague of vaccination be stayed? Shall the vaccinator continue to make disease and death which Nature really never made and art cannot now prevent? In my humble opinion, the only effectual remedy for these direful evils is a direct interference on the part of the people, constitutional, but certain, They have too long adopted Juvenal's view, thus anglicised "few know their own good; or, knowing it, pursue." Let them at once demur to vaccination, protect themselves against blood-poisoning, as they have already done in the non-consumption of bread with alum and bone dust, wine with lead and other mineral poisons, beer with cocculus indicus, &c., water taken frém the common sewers, tea crisped and coloured with copper, air reeking from febrile and corrupted lungs or a thousand offensive skins; ever remembering that if the 'Colleges of Unreason"' have declared unto them vaccination, disease, and death, it is still competent for the "common sense"' of the nation to uphold and maintain those great principles of sanitation upon which life, health, and happiness alone depend. Wm. Hitchman, M.D. " Medical Nostrums--Men hug their medical notions in as close an embrace as the doctrines of their religious faith, and exercise their reason in regard to the one, no more than in regard to the other.- Wilson Flagg, in Atlantic Monthly. of vaccination. ing applauded. The Electors of Richmond and the Vaccination Question. Mr. C. E. Brunskill Cooke in Opposition. On Friday evening, October 25, Mr. Cooke, who opposed Mr. Lawrence Dundas, the nephew of the Earl of Zetland, appeared before the electors at the Town Hall. Almost the first question that domanded the attention of the speaker was the vexed question The electors of Richmond hold | strong opinions on the subject, as we shall see. The Commissioner of the Northern Echo, of Oct. 26, gives a graphic description of the discussion. He says- When he (Mr. Cooke) came to the Vaccination Acts, he stumbled dreadfully. Mr. Lawrence Dundas, it appears, had pledged himself to support Mr. Pease's Vaccination Acts Amendment Bill; and Mr. Cooke - seems to have thought that it gave him an opportunity for gaining capital at his opponent's expense. I may be wrong, but as Mr. Cooke certainly did not give me to understand that he had ever read Mr. Pease's Bill, and as he totally misrepresented its character, I don't think that I am much out in my reckoning. Mr. Pease's Bill, as everybody knows, does not repeal the Compulsory Clauses of the Acts, but solely strikes away the harsh operation of the cumulative penalty. The Vaccination Act, as it now stands, does not provide for the compulsory vaccination tion of every child, but simply for the continuous fining of the recalcitrant parent. Mr. Pease's Bill simply provides that if any parent has a conscientious objection to the vaccination of his child, he may be fined twice, and after having so testified to his repugnance, the State should not continue to prosecute him any further. This Bill Mr. Dundas supports, and this Bill Mr. Cooke opposes. . When he announced his intention to do s0, a voice or two eried "No, no." He went over the ground again, stuttered and hawed, and again coming to the point, ' declared that smallpox was '' proved by statistics to be a very contagious disease,' and he could not sanction the 'repeal of the compulsory clauses." At this point a fine-looking old man, with "lyart haffets wearing thin and bare," whose cheery open countenance beamed kindly over the meeting-he was sitting on the platform stairs cried out energetically-"No! away with them! Lot's have dirt cleared away, but no vaccination !"" The meet- "That's the thing," "Away wi 'em,"' sounded in all directions. Mr. Cooke looked astonished, and Mr. William Robinson (the chairman) suggested that afterwards there was abundant time for free and full discussion, a dictum which was received with applause. The Richmond Burgesses condemned Mr. Cooke on the spot. They saw he understood not their quarrel with vaccination, and that his views were but the surface thoughts of men who do not think on the matter, but content themselves with reproducing the '' parrot cries"' of paid infectors ! " December 16, 1872.] We hope there will soon be many '*Richmonds"' in the field, and that all our constituencies will demand that the candidates for Parliamentary honours shall say "yes, or no" to this question of questions. There is none greater before the electoral body. The question of public health stands foremost in importance when contrasted with any other class of subjects now agitating the mind of this country. We commend Richmond for standing up in defence of our cause.-Kd. A. V. smallPox according to the Epidemiological Society. The first meeting of this Society was held on the 13th November, when the president, Inspector- General Lawson, after some preliminary remarks, gave an outline of the epidemics in various parts of the world during the past twelve months. 'The great diffusion of smallpox in 1871-2 was noticed, there having been epidemics at various points in Africa and Europe, from south of the Equator to the Arctic ocean ; in Asia, from Southern India to Siberia; in America, from Chili to Canada. The hemorrhagio form had been met with extensively through Europe, in Siberia, and in the western hemisphere from Trinidad to Oanada. It was suggested as a subject of inquiry, whether this might be connected with the influences which of late years have led to cerebrospinal fever. It was shown that the epidemic which recently passed over this country, and the north of Europe and Canada, was met with in southern India in 1868, in northern in 1865, in the south of France early in 1870, and in London at the end of that year. Why was not the Lancet, in recording the above, able to say with the most literal truth-" Thus we have had a worldwide epidemic of smallpox, and it has confirmed our wisdom in enforcing the practice of vaccination ; for in every country those who have gone through the beneficent disease, have been the only persons who have escaped the plague." If assertions were worth the breath spent on them, this should have been the case; if oaths to Parliament are of any value when smartly paid for in thousands of pounds, this should have been the case ; if, finally, evidence of experts, such as John Simon, given before Parliamentary committees, ig of any value, such should have been the case. Yet, what is the state of things? smallpox epidemic all round the globe, and hemorrhagic-that is, to speak in common language, "black'"-where? In Africa? In Chili? In India, where vaccination is not much in favour P No! but in Siberia, where Russian rigour enforces vaccination; "'extensively"' in Europe and in Trinidad, where people are under a system of terror or compulsion, which spreads the beneficent disease more widely than elsewhere, by a very large difference, And the epidemiologists, who ought to see this, give out, as a subject of enquiry (to lead us off such a scent), a very obscure and questionable supposition. , Why will not men open their eyes and see that they are being fooled ? vA WW,  . f 269 Anti-Vaccination at Lincoln. To the Kditor of the Anti-Vaccinator. 6, Alma-place, Lincoln, Dec. 9, 1872. Sir,-I think it highly probable that your numerous readers would like to hear of the course things are taking in this ancient city and neighbourhood, relative to the great work of medical freedom. We began our existence, as a league, about twelve months ago, with only twelve members, and now we muster 140, besides honorary members, with every prospect of continuous increase. During the year, wo have had lectures from Rev. W. Hume-Rothery, Dr. Sexton, Mr. James Lawton, and Mr. Baker, which have been attended by sensiderable numbers, many of whom have joined our ranks, We have had general meetings of the members once a month, for mutual education and encouragement, and have found them in the main to be a success. We have here, as at most other places of importance, a functionary well known to yourself and many of your readers, in the person of an inspector for the city, and one also for the county. These persons, however, have not manifested that relish for their work as some of their contemporaries. You remember I sent you a report of the prosecution of two of our members in May last, when an order was made upon them, which, of course, to the present, has been disobeyed. They were not interfered with until about a month ago, when again they made a vigorous stand against this iniquitous law. One of the magistrates admitted the law was not a good one, and they confirmed this saying by fining them only ten shillings, including costs. Two other of our members had to appear on the same day; an order was made upon them, with 6s. 6d. costs. There are here, as in other places, those in better circumstances who ignore the law; yet these are left alone, while the working men. as a rule, are left to bear the brunt of the battle. Iam certain if our enemies would only extend the basis of their operations, and serve all alike, we should very soon have an agitation that would speedily end the existence of this " Pet of the Allopaths.'' We are not without friends at the Board of Guardians, two of whom are members with us. We have found the publication of small handbills, announcing the objects of the League, together with conditions of membership, and the names of persons from whom all necessary information may be obtained, and an advertisement of the <Anti=-Vaccinator, to work exceedingly well; and a copy of the journal is presented, with a card, upon the entrance of each member. Our system of contribution is the payment . of not less than one shilling per annum: and in case of any contingency, any deficiency is made up by an equal levy upon all members. For this we guarantee to pay all costs of prosecution, or if members profer imprisonment, to support the wife and family. The 270 Anti-Vaccinator circulates five times more than the old series. We have recently had our annual meeting, when about 180 sat down to tea (6d. each), and. at that small charge we realised a profit. We hada most enthusiastic meeting; the officers were elected, and the committee enlarged. Since the above meeting, two more of our members have been summoned under the 29th section, and fined full penalty, with costs: One of them, however, has generously foregone his claim upon the funds of the League, although this is the fowth time he has had to appear for three children. We are now aboat taking another step to extend our movement by the formation of a County League, as we think, by this means, all the stragglers may be brought in who otherwise could not stand alone; and at the same time, we shall have a greater bond of union, and there will be greater interest taken in the movement. I essure you, there is a great amount of sympathy for yourself among our members. We trust-God helping you-that you will not leave the country, but remain with us to lead us on to our certain and ultimate triumph.-I am, yours faithfully, : G. 8. Johnson. How to Circulate the '"'Anti-Vaccinator."' To the Editor of the <Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-As a hater of medical despotism, and one with you in your crusade against the law that renders vaccination compulsory, perhaps you will allow me to make one or two suggestions as to the course we ought to pursue to further our object. It is generally represented that the opponents of vaccination are a set of ignorant fanatics: at any rate, this is the sort of material that medical men would fain persuade the public that Anti-vaccinators are made of. 'Lo dispel this delusion, and give the lie to such assertions of the doctors, a plan, something like the following, should be adopted:-We must let the people see that our objection to vaccination is an intellectual one, based upon indisputable facts. We want some means of disseminating the principles of the Anti-vaccinators. How are we to do this? Evidently, to my mind, this can be done-tirstly, by holding public meetings ; and secondly, by circulating the Anti-vaccinator. | The Anti-Vaccinator contains, in every issue, accounts of meetings being. held in support of the movement. Certainly thiscannot but be a powerful impetus to the cause. Often those meetings are productive of a great amount of excitement, which dies away in afew days. To meet this evil, and to keep up the interest, some one, during the meeting, should introduce the Anti Vaccinator, and enforce its claims to the attention and support of the audience. As favas: I learn, this seems to have been very much neglected. Numbers have been assembled topether, and, after hearing two or three: addresses, have been allowed to disperse without having been informed' of the publication of an organ of. the movement. This ought to be remedied,.and not one   s assemblage should be allowed to separate without hearing of the AztiVaccinator. : The Anti-Vaccinator is admirably adapted for the cause it represents, as it not only points out the uselessness of vaccination as a prophylactic, but it points out the means to prevent all diseases, smallpox included. * Hoping this matter will be attended to during the _ winter campaign,-I remain, yours truly, J. Johnson. ' Prudhoe-on-Tyne, Dec. 13, 1872. How the Compulsory Law is Treated by the Working Man. To the Editor of the Anti-vaccinator. Sir,-I am a working man, and living in constant fear lest I should be dragged before the officers of the law. I have: five children, the two youngest of whom have not been vaccinated. One is turned three years old, for whom I was fined in January, 1871, in £1, and 15s. 6d. costs. It seems rather strange that they have never troubled me since, although my window has never been without Anti-vaccinator papers of some kind. I have a dozen Pox = [December 16, 1872. ~ copies of each issue of the Anti-Vaceinator, some of which I sell, and the others I give away. The youngest of my children I have not registered, as I do not think that I am doing wrong in evading this abominable law any way I can. I attend as far as lies in my power to the laws of health, by letting into my house as much fresh air as possible, plain" and wholesome food, and keeping the person clean, avoiding all intoxicating drinks, tobacco, and doctors, and I have no fear of smallpox, or fever, or anything of the-sort.-Yours truly, A Lover of Freedom. Manchester, Dec. 12, 1872. The Press on Vaccination. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-The following sensible leader appeared in the Weekly Dispatch, October 1st, 1871: it needs no comment:-'" We are gratified to find that the minds of our readers seem perfectly cognisant of the vast evils attending a medical despotism enforced by State surveillance. The whole case rests, like the Iliad of Homer, in a nutshell. If vaccination protects us from smallpox, those who want vaccination tion can get it; and, according to their theory, they need not fear the presence of non-vaccinators, from whom they are already safe. Their vaccination, if worth anything, has secured them already. Why desiré to force their views on people who don't want them, and from whom, on their own showing, they can receive no possible physical injury? In this view, which is based on that held by vaccinators, any interference with people of the other way of thinking, is a needless impertinence-a gross and | infamous cruelty. Medical orthodoxy is in its latest operation wholly indefensible ; in fact, it is far less 4 as "December 16, 1872.] .is being forced upon the people. +2 es ~  . 271 defensible than any ecclesiastical orthodoxy whatever" It is a vile outrage on the liberty of the subject, and there is no enormity that the same one-sided pretence of expediency might not be held to sanction. 'Vaccinators, equally with Anti-vaccinators, are therefore altogether interested in opposing a paternal despotism which, beginning with vaccination, has no definite logical limit. These arrogant proceedings are intolerable, especially where the liberty-and as some people think, the health as well as the liberty-of the people is ultimately concerned. Now, we have had many agitations-some laudable, others questionable, on every subject possible on this respectable planet; but personal liberty is one of the choicest of all blessings, and that, wholly apart from medical theories, requires to be jealously guarded. If the medical theories are correct, vaccination is not needed in the interests of its adherents. Needed or not, however, it is not at present to the point: an orthodoxy worse than the usurping ecclesiastical one The working classes, as we have ample opportunities of knowing, have astrong feeling on the point, and that naturally. The winter is now fast approaching. They must hold meetings, and make a subservient majority and an effete or used-up Peerage aware that the dearest right of an Englishman-that, namely, of authority over his own household-is not to be violated at the bidding of State officials, or in the interests of a corrupt clique." '¢A Loving Mother" writes to the Retford News: "Sir,-I am not in the habit of writing to the papers, but must thank you for allowing discussion on vaccination. By this kindness you will gladden the hearts of thousands of mothers, who have every reason to abhor vaccination as a dire enemy to the physical wellbeing of their children. I should as soon think that the bite of a mad dog would prevent my children dying of hydrophobia, as to think that vaccination would prevent them taking the smallpox ; and I look upon the law which wishes to force down our throats this quack nostrum, as a gross outrage on our maternal rights, and a standing disgrace to the British constitution." Nearly all the mothers I meet with have the same abhorrence of vaccination as this '"'loving mother," but the law compels them to submit their babes to the filthy operation.-Yours truly, J. Wilcocksou Manchester, Dec. 14, 1872. Newport. Meeting of the Board of Guardians.-Mr. Maurice Dear presided at the fortnightly meeting of the Guardians at Parkhurst, on Thursday, Sept. 26th, when there were also present-the Rev. C. Theobald, and Messrs. D. E. Gillingham, Mark Morgan, HE. F. Blake, Henry Mortimer, J. Sanders, W. T. Hull, W. Dredge, W. Tharle, R. Urry, R. H. Smith, A. Saunders, R. Aldridge, F. Roach, and Shepherd. Vaccination, and the Chairman' s opinion thereon.The several vaccination officers presented their reports, The Chairman said he desired to say a tow words upon the question of prosecuting in cases of non-compliance with the Vaccination Act, as it was a subject upon which he felt very strongly. Were they to be perpetually prosecuting the same parties ? He wished to obey the law, but he questioned the right of the Legislature to interfere as between parent and child. So far as their experience went, the result which the Legislature evidently contemplated was not gained, for in the great majority of cases in which proceedings were taken, the fines were paid and vaccination was not actually enforced (hear, hear), Under these circumstances he thought that after the process of summoning and fining had been once gone through, no further action ought to be taken against the same parties. These were his views, which he felt bound to express, and if after this avowal the Guardians should think he was not fit to occupy the chair, he would endeavour to meet the wishes of the Board by retiring from the position which he then filled-In the course of some conversation which followed, the Clerk pointed out that when a person was first summoned to show cause why an order should not be made, no fine was imposed.-Mr. E. F. Blake: But let me ask the Clerk if the person is not called upon to pay the costs of the proceedings ?-The Clerk said Mr. Blake knew as well as he did what was done in such cases, and it was perfectly ridiculous for him to ask such an unnecessary question.-Mr. Blake remarked that other Guardians present might not be so well acquainted with the law as he was, and he insisted on having an answer to his question.-The Chairman, interposing', said he should not like to be the means.of introducing any unpleasantness into the meeting. He thought they all understood that there were costs in the first instance which had to be paid by the person summoned.-Mr. Blake: Do you move any resolution on the subject ?-The Chairman: Not at present.-The matter then dropped.-Hampshire Independent. London. Proceedings under the Vaccination Act. On Saturday, summonses against two persons who had refused to comply with the provisions of the Vaccination Act, were heard at the Marylebone Police-court, before Mr. Mansfield. William Young, of 8, Neeld-terrace, Harrow-road, Paddington, was summoned for neglecting to have one of his children vaccinated.-Mr. Roche prosecuted; and Mr. Baker defended. Mr. Roche said the child was under 14 years of age, and had not been vaccinated. He wished to know if the child was in court. Mr. Baker : No. Wm. Dudman, vaccination officer, said : I am the officer for carrying out the provisions of the Vaccination Act in the parish of Paddington. I produce the register of successful vaccinations for the year 1869. 'The child of defendant was borm "n the 30th of November, 1869. There has been no return of any vaccination certificate in the book, and The Anti-Vaccinator. [December £6, 1872. 272 the child has not been vaccinated, to the best of my belief. Mr. Roche said the Guardians felt bound to prosecute in this case, for the defendant was not cnly breaking the law himself, but was doing all he could to induce other persons to do the same thing. He must ask for an order to be made for the vaccination of the child, for a fine to be inflicted for non-vaccination, and the fine for not producing the child. Cross-examined ; I do not receive the fees in these cases. I laid an information in this case on the 18th of October. That was not a sworn information. I can swear that I have reason to believe the child has not been vaccinated. I have not received the certificate of successful vaccination, and that is my reason for believing it has not taken place. I asked Mr. Young, and he told me to find out. Do you know that the child exists P-No. Might not the child be dead ?-Yea. Mr. Roche said the defendant was bound to produce the certificate. Mr. Baker said this was one of those vindictive cases, in which the Guardians prosecuted a man because he would not do a thing to the injury of his child. There was no question of quackery in this case, but the defendant had good reason for objecting to the practice of vaccination. He believed, for instance, that the evidence before the Parliamentary Committee of 1871 was reliable, and that evidence proved that mischief had arisen from vaccination. He believed, also, that the returns of the Registrar- General proved the injurious effect of vaccination. The same defendant was prosecuted two years ago, and having been fined for non-vaccination then, he ought not to be fined again, because the 'necessity of any certificate being now produced was debarred by a recent Act of Parliament. Under the 11th section of the Act of 1871, noone could be summoned unless within twelve months after the offence, and it would be absurd to say that there was any other offence beyond the neglect to vaccinate, for which the defendant had been already punished at least fifteen months ago. Mr. Mansfield said that the non-vaccination of the child, after the notice had been served, was an offence. Mr. Roche referred to the Act, which said that a parent having been once fined, might be proceeded against from time to time. . Mr. Baker next objected that there was not sufficient proof that the child was in existence, but this objection was overruled; and he then said he would prove that the child was not under the father's control. Amelia Harris said : Young. I know the child Christine Mabel Young. IT have not seen her since the last day of June. I know that since then she has been absent from home, out of London altogether. Crogs-examined: I have lived with Mr. Young eloven months. I don't know where the child is. May she not be in the parish of Paddington at this moment, then ?-No. T am in the service of Mr. Where is she then ?-I don't know where she is when she is out of my charge. Ske is not in London. - I don't know where she is. Mr. Baker contended that the person who ought' to be summoned was the person having the custody of the child, and it had been sworn that the child was not in the custody of the parent. Mr. Mansficld thought this was not the case whore parents were living, because they still had their duties with respect to the child. He was sorry that vindictivencss had been attributed to anyone, because the State had a duty to discharge with respect to children, and, for this reason, the children of thieves were protected from being brought up by their parents, and greedy persons were not allowed to distort their young children by bringing them up as acrobats. 'There were always people to oppose good and wise laws, and the full penalty must be paid in this case for the non-production of the child; and an order was made for the vaccination of the child. The fine, which amounted to 22/-, with costs, was then paid. James Stuck, of 8, Irongate Wharf, Paddington, appeared in answer toa similar summons. He had previously been fined for the non-vaccination of one child; but the one in question was born on the 4th of April, 1869. Evidence was given to show that the child had not been successfully vaccinated. Mr. Baker asked whether this evidence would be sufficient ?-Mr. Mansfield: Yes. Mr. Baker: I must protest against this perversion of British justice in a court. Here is a man who does not even know that such a child as is named in the summons is in existence; and, because he merely does not know that the child has been vaccinated, itis to be taken as sufficient proof that the child has not been vaccinated. I now hand in a certificate of the child's death on the 2nd of May, 1871; and yet the evidence of the man Dudman, who will swear anything in any court for eighteenpence, is to be taken. ; Mr. Mansfield : Such an observation ought never to have been made by a gentleman. It is perfectly shameful conduct on your part.-The summons in this case was dismissed. Mr. Baker applied for costs against the Guardians, as the proceedings, he contended, were vindictive. Mr. Mansfield said if the man had been put to any trouble, it was his own fault; for if he had simply sent a verbal message that the child was dead, proceedings would not have been taken against him. Mr. Baker: I protest against the whole proceedings. Justice is gono in a British police-court: Mr Mansfield: I think your manners are gone.- Clerkenwell News, Nov. 4. The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... sds Do. 1 ies Ebioo broG.dc 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. --- The Anti-V accinator, and  . wn Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.8., F.8.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published. Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 78, Cookridge Street, Leeds. hE All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. - No. 18. New Series. January 1, 1873. x [Price One Penny. - Contents, Page The Law Must -be Obeyed.........see.ccsccenes 273 The Famous and Mota Nurse Argument.... 273 MEG CALS NUESOGY, PELCS. so ass mats pans ciaew-es 274 Epidemics and the Differences of Doctors .... 274 SMIUDNE Bichon, Hore ik eet io). 68 74 Vaccine Virus a Poison worse than that of the SBR CLOSING gO is 3 <3 Stale, sha si dparstonsis fs:chd sloseriesn (r) 275 Tit-bits from Official Returns...) .....s.668..0 275 Mr. P. A. Taylor; M.P., and the ee ope MMACEINALIOMG GARUC) wists, aie oe. ws chive sin Fe PPOECHED by ty WE ALDOIOSY ES beiks saeco duis sjnse mes e050 218 The Vaccination Question in the Isle of Wight.. 278 Imprisonment for the Non-Vaccination of a padpeliad. ..h eanOrar ls ta.nqthee addon. 279 Contemporary Opinions in New York.......... 279 Ingo ere Amt Close astaveta cast ene se tlee cae ciaiaaroreie 280 eels Board Of Guardians 7 ...0.cees.esck mee te 282 Anti-Compulsory Vaccination at Ventnor ...... 284 Society for Suppressing Compulsory Vaccination 285 Sheffield Board of Guardians ................05 286 Vaccination Prosecutions: Keighley, Leicester, TIEN, cigk3 6.0 GAdCO GUOOOSGUSO COC COR CUE OOdaneeE The Law must be Obeyed. In Mahomedan countries, the Koran is the law aswell as the religion. Our English judges in British India decide cases of law between our Mahomedan subjects by the Koran; yet we send out missionaries to teach Mahomedans to disbelieve and disobey their law-to tell them that the Koran (their law) is false, immoral, and damnable-terms, surely, much more applicable to our own vaccination laws. Verily, we are an illogical nation. We Compound for sins we are inclined to, By damning those we have no mind to. Any law which violates the human conscience is entitled to the same amount of willing obedience which the Dissenters gave to the law of Church | rate; which Latimer ought to have given to the law requiring attendance at mass; which Daniel ought to have given to the gilded tyrant of his day; which the Israelites were asked by Jeroboam to give to their calf of gold, &c. Need the illustration be pursued further ? In these days, when paternal government is slowly and carefully, and almost designedly, superseding and displacing the parental instinct, we are too apt to forget, with all our professed anxiety for Bible reading, that there is a law of God of (at least) equal importance with the law of man ; and that the parent has a duty towards the child, as well as towards the State. ay The Famous and Ilogical Nurse Argument. Of late, many towns, and even villages, have been placarded with the statements of certain nurses, confessedly of the lower stratum of society, who profess to have escaped infection in the London hospitals: but Dr. Angus Smith says-'' Dilute sufficiently the air of a hospital, and infection ceases." It is to be apprehended that the air of the London hospitals is diluted sufficiently ; certainly it ought to be-for the air of London, with its late low mortality of 19 per cent., is purer than that of any other large town. What, then, becomes of this great.stalking horse of the vaccinators-the widespread nurse argument? It proves nothing. In the same work ('' Air and Rain") Dr. Smith continues-'' Apparently, any one can breathe air tainted with any disease without. being hurt, if the taint issmall enough. We can bear a larger 274 amount of taint if itis diluted enough. In a short time, infected air produces disease; a long period of the diluted air produces none, although the number of particles that must pass over a certain spot must be much greater in the long | time, than when the stronger mixture;passes:in , : cree we rey eng the short time." 2) But is it not possible, however, that continutime, produce ulcer, cancer, or consumption ? GWen dt . a is A Su can> 2 uD, i Medical Nursery Tales. The Lancet of November 16 contains a review OF | ''Tuegons, de, Clinique Medicale," by, P. Gallard, - Paris., J.B. Baillitre et Fils. The reviewer occupies himself with the several parts of the work in order, and among them notices in this work the subject of vaccination in the following style ++" Next follows a lucid and' flowing exposition of the virtues of vaccine, which, though much of itas not new to the well-read, English practitioner, will be found intcresting as enforcing by continental authority the position of those whom'the Anti-'Vaccination League delights to-assail, "We recommend: its translation |   co ous subjection to diluted, infection, may, in . and distribution at.a, cheap rate among all directly or | indirectly, engaged in carrying out the provisions of the Public Health "Act." "Yes-if published, we should''like té see it! 'Eis " lucid'"'-and 'flowing ;"' and these adjectives, let.us. recollect, are employed in | the way of illustrating a description of vaccine. | Many a lucid speaker (like that metropolitan magis| trate to a poor woman) has used lucid and flowing | speech' after titis'style-"smallpox is: computed to - Itis estimated (said a _ have saved millions of lives." late physician of great eminence-Sir J. Y, Simpson) that smallpox gets fewer victims "annually by 80,000" in consequence of vaccination. This sort of "Jucidity:''-isi assailed. certainly.by us, but we will | hope better things of Dr. Gallard, meanwhile. x -e .° aie rer eae Cen SD) I cua "Epidemics and the Differences of, Doctors. 'Tho following remarks are taken from an extract of Dz. Farr's Report for 1870 (published only'a few | Swedks azo) in the Diinés-OF Noviid8 see Gre te ate | "Dr, Farr observes that cholera is more completely | under medical:control than any other known epidemic disease ; it almost invariably begins as diarrhoea. | - "Experience has shown that the various fornis of | 'plague are' influenced to a 'large extent by sanitary | conditions. All zymotie diseases 'are: most..fatal.an the densest, districts ; and although this may be due | in part, to contagion, it is certainly due, in part, to the 'concentrated impurities of towns.' y f . | [January 1, 1878. "The deaths from syphilis (Dr. Farr says) Have doubled in 14years, and this disease\ig thé cause -of many deaths registered under other forms" [!!!] "The great majority of the victims of this disease (he continues) are infants." A different view of cholera is also held, as appears by the following ,extract from late numbers of the "Atlantie Monthly, wader the head "Science" :- Mr. B. G. Jenkins, of London, has observed that cholera epidemics have a period of recurrence equal to a period and a half of sun spots, and that there are seven Ceritres or original points of the disease. From these proceed cholera currents 1,400 miles in breadth, N.W.-and 8: W." Ships far'out at'sea have been'suddenly smitten with cholera on entering the path of "| its propress, and upon" emérsing from the fatal track have as suddenly found relief. These facts (as the editor calls them) point to the conclusion that the outbreak and spread of cholera is not determined by local causes so much as by causes affecting the whole earth asa planet. This:information (continues the editor) must neither be accepted because it is wonderful, nor rejected because it' is strange, and must be duly certified' by patient inquiry. If true, the dreams of the old' astrologers: will be curiously. verified. A terrestial epidemic dependent. on the commotion excited in the sun by planetary gravitation (e.g. the baleful combination:of Jupiter and Saturn) might visit the nations with a plague." es The argument may be carried further by analogy. If the spots: on: the: sun be the cause of cholera, why may not the spots en the moon, 'being of inferior energy, be the.cause of diarrhoea? What'a fine field is here opened for the speculations of our scientific vaceinators ! roheds eaerrs Owe a as Fides eres? 5 . "Mirabile Dictu!? __It is reported, that during the Franco-German war, 263 re-vaccinated German soldiers died of smallpox ;'also, that 23,469'Frenth'soldiers died of smallpox. Weare not certain, it seems, that in the 'French 'army re-vaccination is enforced: "ergo, according to' the customary 'reasoning on 'evidence adopted by English medical 'men-* in 'consequence '(as 1 must suppose) 'of a' bréach.of quarantine regulations, ..which,.. however, could not be: detected' (Pym), we are.to assume that many more French than Germans so ,died,. because of ,such assumed neglect of re-vaccination, It is curious to, observe how completely the Jenner-claimed prophylactic, "vaccination, is thrown overboard. * Now-a-days vaccination goes for nothing. No, it must be ré-vaecination, the neglect of which is now the sole cause of smallpox, and the practice of which alone will protect from smallpox, notwithstanding the mere fleabite of. 263 .re-vaccinated German deaths.. 'These medical statisticians do not deign to tell us among what number of Germans, or under what local condition, these' 263 deaths occurred. Neither 'do they " January 1, 1873. ] inform us of the numbers, or local conditions, of the Frenchmen. Physic and Fog are in truth synonymous terms on such matters. Let us suppose the veriest tyro in physiology, under examination, asked -What is the most fruitful sonrce of epidemic disease ? Would he not answer '' Overcrowding, or lung-poison?"" And what is the pr edisposing cause? Would he not reply "Nervous depression ?'' Also that the greatest power of resistance is afforded by nervous exhilaration. And will it really go down to the physicians of the twentieth century that the science of the nineteenth could discover no explanation for a very much higher mortality from epidemic disease among the beaten, dejected, crestfallen, pining, French prisoners-many of them-ratv | recruits. without stamina of any:-kind, shut up in fortresses; necessarily overcrowded; necessarily dirty; necessarily exposed to:cold, and. ewery.privas | tion.; without one single ray of hope or consolation ; separated from homeand friends, in the power of tho hated. enemy-than existed among). the. victorious | Germans, 'elated by..success in every. field ;.roving | freely: over a-conquered country ; feasting on the fat ef the land; every comfort. at their... option; charlatanry'! an science of 9 aoe centur a #. Baker. Our correspondént was not aware that re-vaccination, was' as thoroughly performed  . supplied. with every necessary and | shouting their | national songs; revelling.in the triumphant joy with which they would: be welcomed.on. their return by | all they held most dear? Away with such-detestable | Shame,. shame, 'shame! on! the pupae is among the French 'as among the German Knowing this tobe: the. fact,. the armies. force of the above reasoning will help us_to | understand 'a little. better, how the mortahty amongst the French was 'so much greater than | atnong the Germans: that re-vaccination, the 'new délusion, inefficient 'as 'its prototype, vaccination. hd. AY. Vaecine Virus: a. jp worse. than thab of the Peidloomnee!: matter used, in vaccination, that I am far from considering it so gréat'a bléssing to mankind as some do. I speak from actual and practical experi'Tt also shews: 'us- how 9s a8 | | four' years "since 5 | pox when young, 'and was' deeply pitted." ence-it is the cause of more bad humours than all | other things put togéther. If my pen were eloquent, that I could describe to you the cases of vaccinated humours that I have seen and cured, the weeks, and _ months, and years they weré stiffering, it would | make your heart ache, and, what is worst of all, | through gross carelessness. vaccination in' Boston ; come, first served ; and, no doubt, every 'other large city is equally bad, as the name: 'of God, and love | Look at the "system of | it | 18 helter-skelter- first 279 to your children, never have them vaccinated with matter that comes from any large city. Question your physician closely where the matter came from ; duty to your child demands that you use every care that the poison be pure. Whatever the nature of it is, is as yet past finding out; but that it is a podson, is past allargument. For instance-what a change the whole. 'system undergoes from the quantity impregnated ! The quantity is hardly enough for a mosquito to carry on her bill-yet see what a wonderful change the whole system undergoes while the poison is going round its, yitals; at is, in, every sense of the word, worse than the poison of the rattle snake. Xf you 'got over the latter, it leaves no bad effect. after it: but not so with' 'vaveination ; nO matter how 'careful parents 'are'of the héalth' of' their chidren--wholesome food; aired. chambers, washing and scrubbing them every Saturday night, which are all very good, and to be highly recommended as a Christiam duty-y et ome 'minim: 'of -vaceliie~ Virus, carried on the point of a quill-pen, spoils all, as the point.of the.quill does in, more ways than. im vaccination. ., Perhaps -you will say I bear too hard on a theory, which has been lauded; to the sky by physicians of. every nation. Perhaps. [do ; perhaps you do, not beheye a: word of. what I say, i do not care the 9 dum: TD of a cent, whether you do or not, "MD: ee Mass." nate bits from 'Official Returits. Mn Fae meres us 'Be te. Saunt oes the Zrish' Registrars Abstiact: for "the three" first quarters of F672, Viz. :- > "Donnybrook. tdealk pbk, 37 Of. ee 16 were never vaceinated,-15-were vaceinated, -1. doubtful, 5 no: musontaasion; 1 ote a his eect attack of smallpox ." tt Leta! | "6Carrick-0n= Suir i= 5 canes : al Teen We oisuibed the-other &@ man who fad snxall- New "Ross. 1: "he had' been vaccinated in his youth, and re-vaccinated last summer.' "Cork, No. 4.-11 deaths from smallpox: four of these blacks,' a vaccinated. Of, the other HED (c) aged i ta 'see | 55 8, vaccinated ; r 2 a I have seen so much humour from impure | years, Vacinate 7 years, vaccinated ; 1, 25 years, vaccinated ; 1, 8 years, vaccinated ; 3 not vaccinated-12, months, 6 months, and 8 months. a [In view of compulsory vaccination, these three were probably. born. too weakly to be subjected. to, the additional weight, . like the 10 in Cheltenham, , workhouse; but such patent occurrences are never pointed out in' medical statistics, any more When. deaths directly resulting. from vaccination, ]_. '$* Dromdaleague.~-A .woman, aged 83, iad smallpox when young; had alsomarks of primary vacci+ nation. However,shewasre-vaccinated.on admission, andthe secondary cowpock.and the weeodlitheat Spaiols ran BSED course $0 108 SBUGB alice sie an 276 Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., and the Compulsory Vaccination League. On Saturday forenoon, a deputation from the Leicester Anti-vaccination Association waited upon Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., in the Three Crowns Hotel, for the purpose of hearing his opinion upon the Compulsory Vaccination Act, and also his answer to a letter which had recently been forwarded to him on that subject. The deputation consisted of Mr. P. Taylor, Mr. M. Wright, Mr. W. Harvey, Mr. G. Clarke, Dr. W. Lakin, and Mr. A. Booth. The letter, a copy of which had also been forwarded to Mr. J. D. Harris, M.P., read as follows :- To the Honourable the Members of Parliament for Leicester. Gentlemen,- We take the opportunity of laying our case before you. We understand the word "liberal" to mean that the thoughts and actions of conscientious citizens ought not to be forcibly subjected to the iron will of the governing party for the time being. Yet, we find ourselves placed, even under a professedly liberal government, in a position to which no parallel can be found in any despotism of ancient or modern times. The greatest knave and garotter in the land escapes with a single punishment for a single offence ; but the inexplicable policy of liberal England has invented for Anti-vaccination alone a novel system of cumulative punishment, which virtually enables our enemies: to fine and imprison us any number of times for one so-called offence, and this power is mercilessly put in force in several parts of England. Our opponents, the Vaccinators, 'taunt us with refusing to submit to the law. We cannot forget the ereat opposition in this town to the law of Church rates. We recollect untiring appeals to the population to refuse to pay those legalised rates ; we know that a Leicester burgess preferred the gaol, to submission to a law he as a dissenter conscientiously disagreed with : but we cannot call to mind a single recommendation from a liberal member of Parliament of that day in favour of this vaccinating revival of the abstract principle of unreserved submission; and we respectfully solicit your opinion thereupon. For, the Vaccination laws are peculiarly oppressive, inasmuch as they coerce the human intellect as well as the human conscience. The statement that we so often meet with, in vaccinating authorities-that vaccine matter is smallpox modified in passing through the female of the bovine species- is ludicrously absurd, and we are surprised to observe that it is still seriously maintained. No pamphlet or lecture in defence of vaccination has been published in this town and neighbourhood in the lifetime of the present generation. This is a striking proof of the weakness of the cause in the estimation of its upholders, in thus withholding their creed from the light of free inquiry. The   -were in reality by far the greater sufferers. {January 1, 1873. only attempt.at evidence or proof which we have been favoured with, are what our opponents are pleased to call statistics, in which we are asked to believe in, the unsupported statement or opinion of some individual partizan of vaccination, in a given town or place, whose statement or opinion is guaranteed by his brother-vaccinators to be unbiased and infallible. On evidence of precisely equal strength, and marvellous similarity, one-half of the French nation believe in the late appearances of the Virgin at Lourdes, and at La Salette, which are proved by statistics of like character ; one person making a statement, and sympathising religionists guaranteeing their instantaneous belief in its truth. Should the particulars of the smallpox epidemic ever be published, we have sufficient reasons for believing that they will show that the vaccinated portion of the community, instead of being protected, A statement has indeed been put forth, relative to the small number of deaths in the borough hospital, in which a division of vaccinated and unvaccinated was made ; but the statement would produce a greater effect upon us if passed through the ordeal of a similar statement made at Leeds, where the names and addresses of the inmates of: the hospital were inadvertently made known. These names we have publicly asked for. There' is no avowed reason for withholding them; and until this information is given, we have clearly no option between implicit and submissive belief in a solitary medical man's assertion or opinion, and our present attitude. Dr. Farr himself does not give implicit belief to all the assertions of the medical profession, for he says :- "The great majority of the victims of syphilis are infants; and this disease (syphilis) is the cause of many deaths still registered under other forms.' And when we read in Dr. Collie's late report of Homerton smallpox Hospital, that "according to the standard of Dr. Marson, only thirteen in the thousand of the patients in the hospital had been properly vaccinated," we ask-is it right, is it liberal, is it, politic, to manufacture new legislative forms of crime, and invent new forms of cumulative penalties, in defence of a protection so avowedly inefficient as is here acknowledged ?-a protection which, as the profession themselves allow, vanishes wholly in seven years, which they also tell us, gradually diminishes during that period, and is at best, as they now admit, a mere palliative. We believe that. smallpox, like other zymotics, would disappear before the march of sanitary improvement, were it. not for the practice of vaccina-| tion, which we hold to be mischievous, not only because Jenner said it was smallpox passed through a cow, but on the ground of the difficulty of reconciling the vaccination theory with any possible explanation of the rise and, spread of zymotic disease. How, for instance, can .we teach that epidemic dangers exist in sewer and cesspool gases, to one who believes that the human race is bound by irrevocable fate to receive the smallpox, either with or without the passage through the cow ? January 1, 1873. ]  . 277 We urge, that these compulsory vaccination laws are demoralising free England, by developing the existence and stimulating the growth in our public Boards, and even in a portion of the Press, of an hitherto unexpected spirit of bitter and angry repression of free thought, heretofore supposed to be the peculiar property and* province of an intolerant and infallible medizval priesthood. We therefore solicit your aid in obtaining the repeal of these obnoxious laws, under whose operation the smallpox has increased, and is increasing, in extent and fatality. We further submit, that the perceptible disorganisation of English society, so much feared and complained of by moralists and theologians, is mainly, if not wholly, due to the weakening of the feeling of parental responsibility occasioned by successive interferences of the State with domestic rights and duties-We remain, with the utmost respect, your humble obedient servants, BP... Taylor: W. Neale, W. Harvey, W. Lakin. A. Booth. Mr. P. Taylor said they had been sent as a small deputation from the Leicester Anti-Vaccination Association, to wait upon Mr. P. A. Taylor, to hear his opinion in'relation to the compulsory clauses of the Vaccination Act, and also to receive his reply to the paper they had forwarded to him a few days ago. Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., said the vaccination question, to his mind, resolved itself into three elements, and these were the question of fact, the question of right, and the question of policy. The first of these, the question of fact, related to the benefits of vaccination. Now, he had to confess that although he had not studied the subject to any great extent, he was a firm believer in vaccination. He had merely seen, amongst other things that came before him in books, the terrible ravages made by smallpox during the last century, as compared with the present time ; consequently, he had a strong conviction of the safety derived from it. As to the question of right, he held that if vaccination was a protection, then the State had a right to insist upon its being thoroughly carried out, as its object was to prevent any one catching the disease of smallpox. No man had anyright to set fire to his house, although it was his own property, for thereby the rights of others were in danger. So, in the same manner, he upheld the right of the State to insist upon vaccination. With regard to the question of policy-that is, whether it was wise to do so or not-he could not give an opinion. The fact was, vaccination was not an absolute protection from smallpox while many people were incapable of being vaccinated. Some persons, he thought,were so liable to smallpox, that, notwithstanding their being vaccinated, they have been attacked with that disease again and again whenever it appeared in their neigh. bourhood. Vaccination was therefore found not to be an absolute preventive from that disease, and it was more a protection against a fatal result. Upon the whole, he had come to the conclusion that punishment for non-vaccination was not politic, therefore not desirable. It had been proposed in committee that there should be only one punishment for non- vaccination. But then, that proposal was open to the very serious objection that it would be contrary to all law. For, whatever was a crime at first, its repetition was always looked upon as an aggravation of the offence. He had endeavoured to draw a line between those who objected to have their children vaccinated on principle, and those who failed to do so through apathy or indifference. For this purpose he moved for the insertion of a clause that a declaration to that effect should be printed on stamped paper, and that those who objected could obtain one, which would exonerate them from all annoyances, for 5s. or 10s. each. But that amendment met with little favour, and so the law remained as it is. Mr. Booth said they were like the hon. gentleman on the Game Laws-they went in for a total repeal. There were many objectors he knew in Leicester, who from the amount of wages they received were not able to pay 6d., and far less 5s. or 10s., for a stamped paper. To have passed such a proposition would, in his opinion, have been another piece of class legislation, or making one law for the rich and another for the poor. He knew of some men who were at present incarcerated in Leicester gaol, because they objected to these laws, and were unable, as well as unwilling, to pay the fines which had been imposed upon them. He then quoted the number of deaths which had taken place in several towns from smallpox, notwithstanding the fact that they had all been vaccinated. He also mentioned the names of several medical gentlemen in Leicester who had objected to these acts. Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., said that he had recently asked his own physician regarding the effects and results of vaccination, and he had given him to understand that they were highly satisfactory. Dr. Lakin then said that he could speak from experience with regard to its result, for during the past few months more smallpox patients had been treated by him, than by any other medical man in Leicester. He had prescribed for upwards of 600 cases, and that morning had visited a young man who was lying very ill, yet he had been vaccinated by the family surgeon. He then related the case of a young man belonging to the militia, whom he had ordered to be taken to the hospital, but who had died about eight days after hisadmission. He inquired if he had been vaccinated ? and his mother informed him that it had been done when he was a boy, when he was a member of the London militia, and again the last time he was up for training at Leicester. Out of the 600 patients he had had, 450 of them were vaccinated; out of these there were five deaths, and only one out of these who were unvaccinated. Mr. P. Taylor said he was a member of the Leicester Board of Guardians, and his experience in the matter as to the cause of smallpox was bad ventilation, combined with the dirty dwelling-houses and habits of the people generally. He was of 278 opinion that if more attention was paid to sanitary matters, and less to vaccination, smallpox would soon disappear from the country. Dr. Lakin then gave a few more instances where he had treated smallpox patients who had been vaccinated, and where both father and mother were unvaccinated, and yet were not attacked by that disease. Mr. P. A. Taylor said all the statistics he had seen | showed a great difference in the mortality of the | numbers attacked with smallpox, and that tho | unvaccinated were always the highest. Mr. Booth said the published statements were not to be relied on, as one lately published at Leeds had been found to be very far wrong, while those given out in Leicester had been publicly denied in the newspapers. Mr. P. A. Taylor thought they would require to have the evidence on both sides, before they could | | | positively stating that it is opposed to every law in After some further conversation, in which several | others of the deputation took part, Mr. P. A. Taylor | said he would be happy to give any memorial on | come to a proper judgment on that point. the subject they might forward to him his best consideration. the subject. The deputation then withdrew.-Leicester Daily | Post, Dec. 2. Protest by "Pathology." in the Wigan Examiner for Oct. 4, ' Pathology" | writes -" Suppose a person is prosecuted for permitting a nuisance, if itis continued after prosecution he is prosecuted again, and yet again, until such nuisance is removed. He must satisfy the | law-that is, he must comply with its demands, or | of common sense can unite in keeping up a practice. | which in its origin is so very revolting and repugnant "The upholders of the Compulsory Vaccination | Act contend that a child. un-vaccinated is a. nuisance to society, in that itis liable to break out | pay the penalty. in dangerous disease, placing the lives of its neighbours in jeopardy(?) Itis needless to say that this has never been proved; but, according to the | hospital reports in this and other countries, quite the | Be that as it may, our law-makers think | reverse. mak with the Faculty, who are paid for thinking on the subject at the rate of half a million sterling per | annum by the people of England; and the Magistrates have no choice when a case of non-cumphance is proved or admitted, except to mitigate the penalty, which they sometimes do when the Act is opposed from principle. But principle cannot always be recognised : hence that tame submission on the part of thousands of poor people with large families, to whom non-compliance would be utter ruin. They choose, as they fondly hope, the least of the two | evils, and many regret their choice 'to the end of life-have regretted it in the death or lifelong injury   {January 1, 1873. of those nearest and dearest to them of all the human, race. During the last twenty years and upwards, I have known hundreds who have so ° suffered, notin Wigan only, but in other parts of Lancashire ; for in that long period I have improved good opportunities in watching the operation and results of this now unpopular Act, in several thousands of industrial families in the country. Its present existence cannot be accounted for by the fact that our fathers were frightened into it, in the absence of sanitary laws, on account of ignorance, and we, their children, have been brought up to it. It is one of those things our descendants will laugh at, as we do now at the trials for witchcraft in a past age. * * * . I am ashamed to say, that this is the first public protest I have attempted, after an experience that has disgusted me beyond expression with so-called vaccination. A great number of learned medical men oppose it strenuously, physiology. '"Sir,-pardon me for telling you that I will certainly vote for the first Anti-vaccinator who | becomes a candidate for parliamentary honours in | Wigan," Dr. Lakin then thanked the hon. gentleman for | his kindness in listening to what they had to say on | The Vaccination Question in the Isle of Wight. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-I am sorry to say the majority of the inhabitants of this island havea firm belief in the efficacy of the vile practice of vaccination as a preventive of smallpox. The medical men resident here (most of them, I believe) have written letters, and published their names in the public papers, upholding it. I am at a loss to understand how men with any degree to one's feelings. They take upon themselves a very grave responsibility, and are worse than teachers of religion who inculcate erroneous doctrines: the child who has been led into error in matters of belief, may, when he arrives at years of maturity, exercise his own judgment, and get to know and follow the right way; but the child whose blood has been poisoned by the vaccine virus, can never eradicate it-it remains within him his life long, which in many instances is but a short one. I look upon vaccination compulsory or otherwise-as the greatest scourge of the nineteenth century, and 1 hope ere long to see the blood-poisoning practice swept from off the face of the known world.- Wishing you God-speed, I am, yours respectfully, David Gavey. Jersey, Isle of Wight, Dec, 13, 1872. January 1, 1873.]  . 279 Imprisoned for the Non-Vaccination of a Dead Child. The following letter appeared in the Dewsbury Reporter of the 16th November. It has 'reference to the imprisonment of Thomas Hey, of Wakefield, in November, 1869, for the non- vaccination of a child that died and was buried in January of the same year :- To the Editor of the Reporter. 'Sir,-In the Dewsbury Reporter of the 9th inst., I find a letter in reply to one written by Mr. Crowther, chairman of the Board of Guardians, from Mr. G. Armitage, magistrates' clerk, in reference to an extraordinary case of prosecution under the Compulsory Vaccination Act, which I brought before | the notice of the Board, and which appeared to them | too wonderful to credit. The result of the inquiry is | satisfactory to me, so far as verifying my statements | in chief; but as your report does not put the most | important feature of the case, viz.-the burial certificate, I will now do so, and your readers, along | with some of our incredulous Guardians, may form | their own conclusions. Ist. It is a fact, and you have it in evidence upon | which this man (Thomas Hey) was convicted, that his child, Mary Elizabeth Hey, was born on the 13th April, 1868. Observe the dates. 2nd. It is a fact, that on the 16th September, 1869, he was fined for the non-vaccination of this child, Mary Elizabeth, which he would not pay. 8rd. It is a fact, that on the 4th of November, 1869, the warrant issued to distrain upon his goods was returned, and a commitment was thereupon issued, and they was sent to the House of Correction for seven days. 4th. It is a fact, that on the 30th January, 1869, this child (Mary Elizabeth Hey) was buried, aged 9 months; private grave, 801; minister, Rev. Stephen Dolan. Now, Mr. Editor, you, along with your readers, shall say how long this child had been in the grave when its father was committed to prison; and if there had not existed this tyrannical Compulsory Vaccination Act, whether he would have been persecuted or imprisoned at all. It is irrelevant to this case, and nothing to do with proving or disproving my statements, whether this man had been fined under the Wine Licensing Act or not-' which 7s. 6d. his poor mother pawned her best dress to pay!" He and his family felt 1 a gross injustice to be brought up by the Guardians, mulcted with fine and costs, and, under the stings of that act of injustice, he and his friends declared solemnly a penny should not be paid. How far and how widely the Compulsory Vaccination Act. is felt to be a tyranny and an injustice, is but little dreamt of by our rulers. Thousands in this country are to-day its determined opponents, and this vaccination delusion, like its diseased and defunct sister, inoculation, this life-destroying, cruel, and despotic Vaccination Act; an Act which has dared to set its foot upon the natural liberties of parents, and usurp the rights sanctioned by the laws of God, and, heretofore, by man; an Act to compel the pure blood of your child to be polluted, or perchance poisoned, with a filthy corruption, impregnated by an indiscriminate arm-to-arm operation with the concentrated diseases of a mixed population, and ofttimes pregnant with a loathsome virus unfit for publication ;-the voices of the thousands will ere long demand that this Act be shelved, and its State-paid votaries numbered with. the witch-burning bigots of the 14th century ; for, under the powers of this Act, which are in direct opposition to the spirit of the English laws and Englishmen's liberty, I regret to add, in many parts of the country, that Guardians of the poor have | become oppressors of the poor, and justices have outraged justice. Mr. KHEditor, apologising for space,-I am, yours truly, : Wan. Fred. Fox. Daisy-hill, Dewsbury, Nov. 14, 1872. Contemporary Opinions in New York. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-I have to thank you for your kind letter. Since I wrote you before, I have received your journal, which bristles all over with brave words. I shall be very glad indeed to co-operate with you in your, good work, so far as I can. Most of my attention has, thus far, been called in other directions of the same great field of sanitary reform, or health reform, and I may not yet know all I should of your particular field of enquiry ; but I shall be glad to inform myself, as I have opportunity. I am enthusiastic in doing all I can for the children, and am strongly opposed to compulsory vaccination. I don't believe in it at all. I believe compulsory education may be necessary in some of the phases of civilization, and would be glad to have some of the people who live in the dirty wards of New York compelled to keep themselves and their children clean. J am also firmly of your opinion that cleanliness, and industry, and temperance, are the great needs of the masses of our people. We have no compulsory vaccination laws here, and probably never shall have them. People vaccinate or not, as they see fit; but it is a fact that the masses have los{ much of their former faith in it. Still they do it. All the doctors here advise and press its value, and insist on repeating it as often as there is any exposure to epidemicinfluences, I-should regard compulsory vaccination as a cruel, barbarous, and hateful crime against nature and reason. Better by far enforce by law the practice of temperance and cleanliness. I wish we could 'have, in every city, not only police for looking after thieves and murderers, but moral police, whose duty it should be to compel a decent respect for the laws of health and morals.-I am, Sir, yours truly, M. D 280   [January 1, 1873. The Antt-Gacceivator. January 1st, 18738. The Report of the meeting of the Leek Board of Guardians on the 11th December last, which . is to be found in another page of the journal, is an additional illustration showing how the Vaccination Acts are daily becoming more and more unpopular. During the agitation which has now been going on for some time, we have not read a discussion on the subject which has given us more unmixed pleasure than the one before us. All the gentlemen who took part in the argument spoke calmly, temperately, and to the point, and there was an entire absence of party fecling and disagreeable personalities, which so frequently mar and disturb similar discussions. With regard to the question as to whether Boards of Guardians are "' bound to prosecute" objectors, we beg to assure the Board that there is no compulsory clause which places them under obligation to hunt up recalcitrant parents, and to prosecute conscientious ratepayers who object, and are able to give a 'reasonable excuse"? for not wishing to have the operation performed. The Vaccination Act was intended to be, to a great extent, '' permissive." Let the list of defaulters lay upon the table until attention is called to it by the Medical Department of the Privy Council. Our opinion is, that the original and prime movers in connection with the Vaccination Acts will be glad enough of an opportunity of putting them quietly ''on the shelf." If that is not so, we have mistaken the course of recentevents. Mr. Swain was right in saying that vaccination was yet a moot question. To us, however, it is a settled question; we regard it as the greatest curse that ever visited the nations of the earth at any period of time, and under any circumstances: still, we accept the proposition that the vaunted benefit of the rite is debateable ground. And it is no small pleasure to be able to say that vaccination is now fairly on its trial, not only in this country, but in other lands; the subject is coming to the surface everywhere, and the time is at hand when the verdict must be given which will consign it to a merited oblivion. | Mr. Nicholson assisted the debate materially when he put the issue thus:-''I think incarceration for a 'default of this kind is a very painful thing, as most parents will naturally take the best care they can of their children, so far as they know how." Our very instincts- to say nothing of our judgment-rebel against this unclean, beastly, and abominable ceremonial. If vaccination could be shown to be a protective against smallpox, should we not concur in the observance? So far from its being a protective, it is a provocative. We should have no smallpox in our midst were it not that we engraft and multiply it by the very means which, in our sublime ignorance, we employ to protect us against it. The vaccine virus is smallpox matter, and it naturally produces its lke-the more vaccination, the more smallpox. There is no exception to that law; it is cause and effect; and the man is insane, or next to it, who shuts his eyes to that conclusion. During the recent smallpox epidemic, the evidence is supplied by every country visited by it, that wherever vaccination has been the most complete, there the disease has assumed the worst type, and the mortalty has been the heaviest. No vaccination, properly interpreted, means no smallpox. If we are to have smallpox (although we do not believe in the doctrine), let us have it pure and simple. 'It is better to fall into the hands of God,"' than into the hands of Jenner, or the whole body of medical men thrown into the bargain. smallpox is the consequence of an infringement of natural laws. Let us attend to sanitary regulations, to personal and domestic cleanliness, and smallpox has no message for us. The disease would disappear as certainly as the plague of London declined after the city was rebuilt and rendered habitable, if we did not keep the disease amongst us by artificial means. Mr. Gaunt opened a wound that the Faculty are desirous of closing. The great question is January 1, 1873.]  . 281 not-''Is vaccination a good thing?" but is rather-'' Is not blood-poisoning a bad thing?"' That is the real issue between us and the pro-vaccinators. Mr. Gaunt said he could point the Guardians to '"'one person"? who had suffered ''through the infusion of bad matter into the blood by vaccination." One case, Mr. Gaunt? If you had said that every child upon whom the operation is performed suffers, to a degree, in correspondence with the nature and quality of the virus, you would have spoken the truth. What means the high death-rate amongst children ? What is the answer to the fact that 25 per cent. of the total smallpox deaths oceur in children under five years of age? Who can explain why every other child born into the world must die before it reaches its tenth year? This blood-poisoning mania is the most horrible affliction to the whole family of man, that the human mind, sage or savage, ever conceived. In the guise of a benefit, the Faculty propagate diseases, and communicate disease conditions which, in their influence upon the public health, far exceed, and are infinitely more disastrous than, the most dreaded epidemics which, in ages past, produced so much mischief and desolation. No man living knows what that agentis, which, for a paltry fee of eighteen-pence, the vaccinator is ready to transfer into the pure current of our children's blood. Our objections have nothing of mere sentimentality about them; the danger is, alas! too real and too certain: we object to play with an agent which, in the end, is as direful as the poison of the serpent's fang, or the wound of the assassin's knife! Mr. Hulme's objections were far too practical. He said, if there were any virtue in vaccination, it ought to have saved us from the recent epidemic. There is no virtue in it; it is a death-dealing destroyer; how can it save us? In the very nature of things, all that it can do is to produce its kind, smallpox. If men would use their natural gift of '"' common sense," neither orders from the Local Government Board, nor Acts of Parliament, would induce them to prostitute their reason at the shrine of a medical dogma so thoroughly unreasonable, and so disgusting. During the last two years, notwithstanding all our opposition, how have the Faculty met us? By fair argument ? No. What is the -attitude they have assumed ? Have they tried to meet fact with fact, reason with reason, or precedent with precedent? Certainly not. They have declined all our advances to discuss the question ; they have disregarded our appeals to reply to the united testimony of such men as the late Dr. Hunter and Dr. Copland, with regard to the evils of blood-poisoning; they offer no explanation of the fact, that notwithstanding the efforts which have been made, in a sanitary point of view, to reduce the death-rate, death laughs at our philosophy, and demands his toll with ever increasing per centages. What is the meaning of conduct like this? It is that the conscience of the Faculty is becoming alive to the gravity of the situation: they know, as well as we do, that vaccination, like physic, is a monstrous delusion; they dread detection and exposure, and wish to defer the evil day; they cannot brook the idea of being led by the laity, and of having to confess to another blunder, and thus swell the gloomy catalogue of medical fallacies : and, what is worse than all, is to be called upon to relinquish an important and prolific source of revenue like that produced by vaccination. The last is the bitterest ingredient in the cup! Lastly-we wish to refer to an expression of the Chairman, wherein he observed that '""Mr. Hulme's argument was against the best medical testimony in the world." The statement is not true-the position is not understood. Does the Chairman know that his idea of "the best medical testimony in the world" has reference to the testimony of men who are committed to Jennerism, and who seize and batten on. the lion's share of the spoil? Is that so, or is it not? We one day asked the opinion of a friend on the vaccination controversy. His answer was this :-''If there is one consideration more than another, that would induce me to believe vaccination to be a bad thing, it is that so many of the Faculty say itis a good thing. I have no faith in the profession." We subscribe, along with tens of thousands of our countrymen, to that opinion, Do 232   {January 1, 1973. Was there ever a period when the medical profession did not profit by some wretched quackery that levied its death-tax upon the people? Tho 'Fallacies of the Faculty" have neither been few nor far between. Amongst the most prominent of that distinguished class of disorders, are inoculation and vaccination- the victims may be counted by millions! It is asad reflection to think that medical science fosters and upholds a practice which is denounced by every old woman in the land. It will ever be that a great number of people will follow where the profession leads: but when the thinking portion of the community begin to suspect that the Faculty may be wrong, there is but a step between them and the point which we have attained, in believing-nay, in knowing-that in the matter of vaccination they are wrong, fatally wrong; and the sooner they retrace their steps, the better will it be for the nation and for themselves. 'They are standing upon a mine that may spring any moment. The people will yet shake themselves freo from a medical tyranny that threatens the life of every household. Which testimony is the most reliable, that of men who profit by the practice; or that of men who disbelieve in the philosophy of the observance, and voluntarily relinquish their share of the profit, and who come out, and will not touch ''the unclean thing?" We know which is the best evidence ; and we throw in our lot with the minority. Mr. Chairman, and Gentlemen of the Leek Union-We compliment you upon the humane and wise decision at which you arrived, to let the list of defaulters remain in abeyance. We beseech you to keep it there, and not to rest satisfied with that, but to search into these things, and to form your own opinion.' Depend upon it, there is no prophylactic, no protection against epidemic influences, against all zymotic diseases, save in cleanliness,-using that word in its widest signification. Vaccination is a lie in the sight of the hying God. To talk of compulsion, with regard to men who have conscientious and intelligent arguments to support their case, is the extreme of folly; nay, it isa suicidal policy. When did coercion nroduce conyiction? You may lead an Englishman, when you cannot coerce him. Laws enacted to enforce a medical and heretical dogma, are the worst form of tyranny, and are sure, sooner or later, to bring the members of the medical body into universal and well-merited contempt. One word more. Good Mr. Challoner-Do not hurt our feelings again by an observation like the following :-''I suppose it was the | intention of the Legislature that children should not be deprived of the benefit of vaccination, although their parents might be averse to it.' The Legislature-had no such intention; but we will forgive the soft impeachment, if the Legislature will only permit us, even by fines and imprisonment, to save our children from the curse attending the operation. We mean this running commentary on the report of the Guardians of Leek to be an answer and a lesson to Guardians in other districts. We hope that the Boards of London, Manchester, Leeds, Newcastle, Sheffield, Darlington, Walsall, Shields, Gainsborough, Warrington, Preston, Southampton, and Keighley, will kindly con these thoughts supplied by a friendly pen. Leek Board of Guardians. The usual fortnightly meeting of this Board was held at the Union on Wednesday last, Mr. H. L. Johnson in the chair. There were also present Messrs. J. Burnett, T. Bainbridge, W. Brown, T. Critchlow, J. H. Deane, F. Fynney, F. Gaunt, 8. Gibson, J. Grindey, H. Hulme, W. Hine, J. B. Knight, J. Nicholson, W. Shirley, J. Simister, C.. Swain, J. Shufflebotham, J. Weston, and G. Wilshaw; and Joshua Brough and Hugh Sleigh, Esq., J.P., ex-officio. Vaccination. Mr. Swain-after referring to the instructions given to the vaccination officer, at the last Board meeting, for taking legal proceedings against persons for non-compliance with the Vaccination Act wished to know if it was imperative for the Board to take legal proceedings against persons who conscientiously objected to the operation being performed on their children. He thought it would not be advisable to have recourse to such 'extreme measures. It was well known that whether the January 1, 1-73.]  . 283 L OL practice of vaccination was beneficial, or otherwise, was still a mout question ; and he thought it would be very hard for persons to be presecuted and punished for a matter of opinion or conscience. He beheved, if the Guardians did not enforce the Act, it would be acecpted gratefully by those persons who were called defaulters. The Chairman was surprised that there should be somany people who would go against the law in this district ; in one part of the Union-in Norton paris} -there was not one case of neglect. It was the law, he gaid, and it was for the Board to see it carried oug. Mr, Hyde (the vaccination cfficer), in reply to My. Nicholscn, gai cases Of smallpox thet had occurred at Norton, but he thought it was less tian in Leek, in proportion to the population, Bir. Nichelson said he should support the request hat they should not proceed to extremities in the unvaccinated cases, though he was not satisficd that the thine ought not be donc, yet he would muth rather the conviction of the people went with it. At the present time, the town was in a_healthy state, tnd smuli-pox prevailed to a very tittle extent; and if they found there wasno greut difference at Norton, then, he thought, they should give instructions not to resort to legal extremitirs, He did really think it a dircadful hardship to some persons; there was one echtleman, He believed, in- the Potteries, who had been sent to prison jor nob complying with the Act; and he thought incarceration for a default of this kind was a very painful thing,as most parents would naturally tike the best care they could of their children, so far as they knew how. He was very happy to join im the request as to whether it was needful fur the Guardians to prosecute. The Charrman said: Suppose. every _ person throughout the country should object to vaccination, how would it be then? Medical testimony went to prove the consequence of non-vaccination. Myr. Gaunt said it would not prove anything worse than a case he knew of at Norton, where one person had broken out all over, through the infusion of bad matter in the blood by vaccination. The Chairman said that point had long been tulked over, but it was untrue. Air. Gaunt said he could show a case. Phe Chairman suid medical evidence went to show that if there was a disease in the body, it night be brought out by vaccination; but that was all. Mr. Hulme agreed with Mr. Nicholson; and he was quite satisfied that vaccination, carried on-to the extent it had been, ought to have preserved the people ; but it did not, andif it did not, what was the use cf it? If vaccination would do away with smallpox, why should the people be afraid 'of the disease, or ehject to the operation? He would not be afraid.even. of sleeping witha persun havu.g the smallpox, if he believed vaccination was.a -preventive. But it appeared to him that it was no preventive after all, and never had been; and yet they would compel perscns to have their children inoculated-pcrhaps with some disease that would a e far more serious and troublesome than smallpox itself, T'o enforce this law, he thought, would be a tyrannical proceeding; and if he wished to convince the people of the benefits of the operation, he would try to do it by argument, for they would never be convinced by compulsion. The Chairman said Mr. Hulme's argument was against the best medical testimony in the world. Mr. Hulme said he had been frequently told that ; but they all knew the medical professsion wished to get as much. business as they could. My. Swain wished to remark--as the matter had been taken up-that he was in favour of vaccination himself, and had had his own children done; but he was endeavouring to shield those persons. who had conscientious scruples. ("* Why should you do iby') He thought if a man could not be convinced by reason, there was very little chance of convincing him by his pocket or his person. He algo thought if the former orders of the Board were carried out, it would be at variance with the compliment which had been paid to the Board a short time ago. by an Anti-vaccination lecturer -the Rev. W. Hume- Rothery-for it was not often they deserved. or received one. He begged leave to move that the order should be postponed. The Chairman: Till when? Mr. Gaunt: This day six months, My. Challoner (clerk) said he did not think they could revoke an"order; and there was-an set of Parhament which required the Guardians to have this vaccination Liaw carried out. He supposed it had been the intention of the Legislature that children should not. be deprived of the benefit. of vaccination, although their parents might be averse to it. Mr. Nicholson thought it would be well to let the order rest in abeyance for a time. The Chairman remarked that the list of defaulters had been on the table at several previous meetings, but members had left before the matter was considered. It was then agreed that the order of the Board should remain in abeyance. the Professor in Fault, Professor Huxley says:-" The great teaching of | science is its constant inculcation of the maxim, that the sole ground on which any statement has a right to be believed, is the impossibility of refuting ite?" Is this correct? A statement has been made that the planets are inhabited by a purer race of beings. We may refuse our belief, but we have no means of refuting the statement. Has the statement+therefore a right to be believed ? Certainly not. The Professor should have said-''The.sole ground on which ny statement has a right to be Heneaien is the impossibility of refuting the evidence given in proof of i.' A dreamer may be disbelieved, but how. can he be refuted ? : D. 234   [January 1, 1873. Anti-Compulsory Vaccination. Meeting at Ventnor. A meeting was held at the Literary Institute, on Wednesday evening last, to take into consideration and adopt resolutions for the repeal of the Compulsory Vaccination Act. A good number were present on the occasion. The chair was taken by Dr. De Roche de Anger, of Newport, who, in his opening remarks, said he had had very great experience as a medical man in studying the effects of vaccination on the human system, and he had long since been convinced that vaccination was not a preventive of smallpox, but that it was the cause of engendering all kinds of diseases into the system of our children, which develop and make our children weak and sickly, and often bring them into consumption and to premature graves. Cancers were on the increase to an alarming extent, and he believed would increase more and more until the abominable practice of infusing matter from one to the other be stopped. They were there that night to consider the question fairly and fully, and to propose a resolution to the meeting for the repeal of the Compulsory Act. He had great pleasure in calling upon Mr. Hobbs to address the meeting. Mr. Hobbs, on rising, said it gave him much pleasure to be there that evening, because that was a question not merely for doctors to consider, but fathers and mothers; and he hoped that every one present would give the subject a full and careful consideration. Iie gave two or three instances of smallpox in his own family, where two of his sisters were down together with it, and their recovery, without leaving one spot aboutthem. Hethen gave several instances which he had seen, where children had been strong and healthy before vaccination, and where the parents refused to have it done, but were compelled by the tyrannical Act to submit. Hehad seen the children pine away, droop, and die, completely murdered-their lives sacrificed, and brought to premature graves. Seeing this and other numerous instances he could mention, and believing that God finished His work when he made man, and that vaccination was not a preventive, but the means of engendering many foul diseases, he therefore refused to have his children done. For this he was dragged to jail, and treated as a felon. If they call this a free country, where is the freedom ? He would ask them to consider the question, and bestir themselves, and come and help to fight the battle for liberty of conscience, and the removing of this tyrannical law from the statute-book of this so-called free country. Mr. F. T. Cogger was the next speaker. Hesaid: My remarks tonight will be few, but they will be facts which I wish every one present well to consider. Most of you know my mind upon vaccination I object to vaccination. | tion. I hate it as I hate a serpent, because | know there is poison in it. And I contend that the compulsory law, which enforces it upon me by fine and imprisonment, is a perfect disgrace to those who made it, as well as to those who carry it out; and, for my own part, I cannot conceive how any one, with the common feeling of a parent, can administer such a tyrannical and unjust law. You ask me why I answer-because I can see such awful results following it. Do you need instances? I will give you a few, which many present will, I am sure, bear me outin. 'The speaker then enumerated several, in this and other localities, whose children had been strong and healthy, but because, he said, of this accursed law, the parents were forced to have them vaccinated, and many now were perfect wrecks of humanity. He then gave one most touching case of a childin Ventnor, which, he said, was literally murdered by vaccination, the medical man giving the certificate-" Died from vaccination.'' The speaker then asked-Can you, gentlemen, in the face of such undisputed facts as these, with many others which I could give you, if time permitted, blame me, as a parent, with a parent's love, for refusing to expose my child to such treatment, and run the risk of having it served in the same way? [A voice from the body of the hall: '*No! we cannot."| The speaker then gave an account of his having been summoned, and fines inflicted, amounting in all to £2. 7s., or 14 days' imprisonment, and of his being taken to Winchester jail, giving a very vivid description of the inhuman treatment, the dress, &c., during his incarceration, | where he said he was treated as bad as the greatest felon in the jail. He earnestly asked the meeting to come forward and raise their voices against such an unjust, un-English, tyrannical and abominable law. I say, let us have freedom in this so-called free country of ours. Ifyou like vaccination, have it, by all means; but because we object to it, is it right to march us off to prison, crop us, and shave us, confine us in a stone cell, and brand us as the offscouring of the earth-[A voice: 'It's a shame and disgrace to our country" |-and treat us as the greatest felons in jail? I am more determined than ever to fight against it, and fight I will, so long as God gives me strength, till I see this compulsory cursed law swept from our land. It has been stated in the town, since I came back from prison, that I have had my child vaccinated ; but it has not been done, nor shall it ever be, until the law can take it by force and do it, which, thank God, it cannot do at present. The Rev. R. Caven, B.A., of Southampton, said : My friends, although I cannot give you facts from my own experience about the prison, as the two former have done, I have been summoned before the magistrates two or three times and fined, for the same offence; but I will give a few instances where honest, kind, and loving parents have been dragged from their homes and families, and thrust into prison, because they conscientiously refused to sub- January 1, 1873.]  . 285 mit to this tyrannical and unjust law. The speaker then quoted ten or twelve such cases, after which he went thoroughly into the subject of vaccination, quoting the opinion of several of the most eminent doctors of the day. He gave statistics, before vaccination and since, also statistics of the present day, taking the army and navy, comparing them with the civil populations; also quoting a statement of a doctor in Dublin some two or three years ago, who said that Dublin was so well vaccinated that it was free from smallpox, and yet, a few months after when it was raging, blamed the Government because they did not allow funds to get the people properly vaccinated, and thus charging it upon our Government. How could they reconcile such conflicting statements? He then went on to show that vaccination tion was not a preventive from smallpox, and gave several instances which came under his notice during the recent epidemic in Southampton, showing that there were many more died of those who had been vaccinated, than of those who had not. He then gave the reasons which led him to refuse to have his children done, and also stated that he went to London to' one of the cleverest doctors there, who told him that he would not take the responsibility of vaccinating his child; and then asked what right Government had to step in between him and his medical man? Yet they do, and summon and fine me; and if I refuse to pay, they will take me, as they did my friends, and lock me in a prison cell. [A voice: ''It's abominable."] He then concluded a very earnest and telling address by proposing a resolution to the effect that in the opinion of this meeting it is unjust, unfair, and un-English to enforce vaccination by repeated fines and imprisonments; and that this meeting pledges itself to do its utmost for the repeal of the Compulsory Act. This was seconded by Mr. Dean, of Newport, who'said he fully sympathised with his two friends on the platform, who had been made the victims of such tyranny and despotism, by being dragged from their homes and thrust into prison, for seeking to preserve the health of their dear little children. He believed that God had finished His work when He created man, and made him a perfect being, and that the Government, by enforcing this Act, was interfering with the work of the Creator, and by so doing telling Him He had not finished His work. The speaker then asked parents if they could stand by and see their fellow-townsmen thus persecuted and tyrannised, without lifting up their voices against such a wicked, cruel, and inhuman law ? Mr. Diffy, of Sandown, next related several cases which he knew in Shankln, Sandown, Brading, and the vicinity, where children were suffering severely, and some dying, from the effects of vaccination. The resolutions were then put, and carried unanimously. The Rev. Mr. Caven again rose, and asked if. there was any one in the room who would like to make, any remarks on the other side; if so, they would be very happy to hear. them. No one rising, he then proposed a vote of thanks to Dr. De Roche de Anger, for taking the chair, which was seconded by W. M. Wrather, Esq., of Ventnor. The meeting then broke up, some remaining: behind to give in their names as members of the Isle of Wight Anti-Compulsory Vaccination Society. -Hampshire Independent, Dec. 7. LONDON. Society for Suppressing Compulsory Vaccination. A public meeting to expose the Fallacies of Vaccination-its failures and dangers-was held recently at Tranter's Temperance Hall, Pentonville-road, King's-cross, London. On the motion of Dr. Ellis, J. Robert Taylor, Esq., was unanimously voted to the chair. In his introductory remarks the chairman observed that he believed no cause in which he could engage was so pregnant with the health, happiness, and comfort of the community, as that which they had met together to advocate. The more he studied the subject, the more convinced was he that those who were banded together in this league had a righteous object in view. He had been engaged in sanitary reform for 40 years, and it was his opinion that a great amount of ignorance upon this subject. prevailed, even among: literary men; and the only reason why the majority of parents had their childrén vaccinated, was because the law compelled them. Referring to a work for the enlightenment of the working classes, by Dr. Grieve, medical superintendent of the Hampstead Hospital, the chairman quoted an assertion contained in it-that vaccination forms no unerring standard, and that it is possible for persons to be vaccinated, and yet obtain no protection against smallpox. If (the chairman asked) vaccination was no unerring standard, then why should it be made compulsory? It had been well stated in Mr. George Dornbusch's exhaustive letter, that after twenty years of compulsory vaccination the number of deaths from smallpox had never risen so high as in the memorable year of 1871, conspicuous for its numerous re-vaccinations. In the year 1842--that was eleven years before the enactment of compulsory vaccination -deaths from smallpox amounted in England and Wales to 2,715, whilst in 1871 the number of victims had risen to, 22,907. The chairman 'also referred to what he was pleased to term the candid confession of Dr. Grieve-that he had not seen many cases, after re-vaccination, of smallpox in the Hampstead Hospital; and in other respects he severely criticised the pamphlet as not being at all convincing, or calculated in the least to remove the stumbling- block in the way of the reception of vaccination and re-vaccination by the working classes,and contrasted it with the manly statement of Thomas Miiller, in aoe   Lat | his last invaluable report-that the whole of the 2,050 children in his Orphan Homes, near Bristol, had been vaccinated, and yet the smallpox, in 1871, raged fearfully amongst the children, in fact it raged as badly there as in almost the worst place in the kingdom. Dr. Ellis, on rising to address the mecting, stated that he believed it to be the opinion of the public that members of the medical profession were public servants, and that their duty was to endeavour to restore health, and to save life, and never do anything to endanger it under the pretence of saving life. Thomas Baker, Esq., barrister-at-law, moved a resolution to the effect that the numerous re-vaccinations of 1871 having been followed by a larger amount of mortality from smallpox than had oceurred in any previous year during the century, vaccination affords no protection against smallpox. After animadverting on the manner in which the Vaccin-ation Acts were passed through the House, the speaker proceeded to criticise Dr. Tripe's sanitary report, from which he gave an extract, in which the doctor gave it as his belief that effective vaccination | was no positive protection agajnst smallpox, but quite as good a protection as an attack of smallpox would be-Here, however, the speaker proved the doctor to .be. wrong; by stating -that Whereas déaths from smallpox.after vaccination amounted to 53 per cent., the percentage, of deaths from, smallpox after a Second attack was only one. | a $ =e A tiem chin get as cee Y { 5 ry Mr. Emery, in seconding the resolution, observed that there could be no dispute'as to the fact that loathsome diseases were often communicated "by vaccination; in support-of which, 'the speaker men: tioned several cases which had. come under his.own | notice, where the children had been blood-poisoned (c) Pure lymph by the infusion of vaccine lymph. was all a delusion, as the matter is corrupt, putrid, and rotten: * St enti te ce ~ he resolution was carried, with only some three or fomr-diasemtionts is Feet ek ees Mr. John' Morison submitted a memorial to be presented to thé 'Guardians, of the, Holborn Union, rélative to recent prosecutions for non-vaccination , - for the approbation of the meeting, | """The memorial was duly seconded, and carried | unanimously. dug rae Mr, George Dornbusch proposed that a-memorial | relating to, the existing vaccination-laws be signed by the chairman..on behalf: of-tho.-mveeting, and _ presented to the Home Secretany..... seconded the motion in' a lengthy spdcth, thowhich he: severely commented on'the priictices' of niediaal officers.in rolation to vaccinations'! 5 se ef to - 'On being put, the resolution "was unanimously 'earried:: ' oe Ete as Renee ; of A vote of thanks to the chairman cloged the proceedings, and the meeting, which was very crowded, 1 ments, of the speakers. -London. Mirrors. (c) \dy. eed Sika cans ee ty | 155 séparated, evidently sympathising with the senti- [January 1, 1873. sheffield Board of Guardians. The usual weekly meeting of the Sheffield Board of Guardians was held yesterday; under the presidency of Mr. Searle. The cther membcrs present were Messrs. Bacon, Widdéwson) Beil, Barker, Robertshaw, Stacey, Barkivorth, Shipman, Jarvis, Wocd, Dobb, and Fox. A Game at " Shuttlecock.'-My. Robertshaw, in reference to the statement of Mr. Woollai, one of the registrars, that his efforts to carry out the Vaccination Act were frustrated by his not having the power to prosecute persons who refused to have their children vaccinated after all the noticos had been served, said he should: move that a resolution passed by the Board on the 31st July be rescinded. The recolution was-" That in no ease a prosecention on the matter of vaccination take place until is has been distinctly considered and ordered, by. the: Guardians in each particular case.". , Mr. Woollama, said that. he had above 200 cases in which parents 'had refused . to have their children vaccinated, ,in. many. cases not from. conscientious motives, but. from. carelessness. After the notices calling upon persons to. have their children vaccinated had, been served, the officers of the Board were powerless. He hoped. the- Board would not shrink from its duty, but would rescind the motion.-Mr. Dobb seconded: the preposition, which was supported by Mx. Stacey, Mr. Shipman, Mr. Wood, and Mrxr., Searle. , Messrs... Fox, Bacon, Beal, Widdowson, Barkworth, and Barker, opposed the motion, thinking that they would. be delegating their duties to the registrars, if they.allowed them to summon people without first consulting the Guardians. On being put to. the yote, the motion. was carried by the casting yote of the Chairman.--Mr. Robertshaw then moved that the vaccination officers be empowered to take all such legal or other proceedings as they may deem, necessary from time ,to time, to Secure compliance with the law, -Mr., Wood seconded thé motion, which, was, opposed by My. Bacon, Mr. Beal, and Mr, Fox.-On being put to the meeting, thé motion was lost by a majority,of one. Mr. Bacon gave notice that at the next meeting he should move that the resolution which ,had. been gine be again adopted. Sheffield Independent, Tov. 14. | : ea as __ Birmingham smallPox Retuwrns.+From the ente . | return issaed by Mr. R.. Woolley, sanitary inspector Mr. Smith, a Guardian: of thé'poor of St. Pancras, | for Birmingham, it appears that in the week ending 'the Sth instant,' thére 'had' been 17 new cases reported=-14" 'vaccinated, 8 not. "There were at the Workhouse Infirmary 23; and fhére had been 19 recoveries and 8 deaths, as against 18 récovéries last week and no 'deaths: "The sumiiary shows 'cases reported since November 18, 1871, 2,259; vaecinatéd, 1,973; unvaccinated, 242; doubtful; 44; 'recovered, 1,901'; 'deaths, 324 (vaccinated persons, 213; unvaéeinated, 103 ;-doubtial, 8) 'total cases remaining, 34. YT Preue -Birminghiin Morning News, Nov. 18: MPF as WON sy) me od G-diith uecnetey . ee a tae cay euedest January 1, 1873.] Public, Vaccination Prosecutions e A rs, oF wid pingx(r) . e ee | t y ff pat tame less es ds Does ~<* ° wre is de pawn dons ese te atek eur Teel geenie 721) alae Anti-Vaccinators .in GCourt.-At the Keighley Petty Sessions, yesterday, before Mr. John Craven, (chairman), Mr. John Brigg, and Mr. Joseph Craven, Isaac- Emmott, John Greenwood,.R..A. Milner, and | Joseph. Birkbeck, were eharged. by Mr. G. Smith, - vaccination officer appointed by the Guardians, with | having failed to have their. children. vaccinated according to the provisions:of the Vaccination. Act. Mr. 'Milner appeared, and apphed for an adjournment of all the cases,.as the defendants were anxious to- secure the services of..a 'barrister .-who: resided in hondon;' 'and. who -was. said. to be. well posted: in matters relating 'to the law of vaccination. He (Mr. Milner) was anxious for'the.cases to be adjourned to | an. indefinite period, as the defendants were not in a position to say' when they would be. able to.secure the-services of the legal gentleman referred to.-The magistrates agreed to adjourn the cases for. fourteen | days, when they would be proceeded. with, and.the | defendants must then be-ready to.meet the charges (c) against them.-Keighley News, Novy. .2. ; ~~" At.the Keighley Petty Sessious, yésterday, before | Mr. John 'Brige and Mr.' Joseph Graven, Isaac | Kmmott, "Turkey-street, Keighley, appeared to | answer a summons under the Vaccination Act, setting forth that George Smith, a vaccination officer | of the Keighley Guardians, had reason to believe (c) that the defendant: hada child named' Dick, under the age of fourteen; who had not been successfully Health Journal. vaccinated ; he is therefore commanded, "in Her | Majesty's name, tobe and appear, with the said child, | _ before me-(the summons' was signed: by Mr. John Craven)-on the 1st November, 1872, to be further dealt with' according to law." The case had: been called on the day named; but the hearing: of this and several other cases was adjourned till yesterday, so that a barrister who: had been engaged for-the defence might be present on behalf 'of the defendant. Mr. Baker, Q.C., now appeared on behalf of the several defendants.-Mr. Spencer, clerk to -the Guardians, who appeared in support of the information, explained that the defendant was charged under the sist section of the Act, and not, as he had previously been before the Court, under-the 29th. He quoted from a circular issued by the Local Government Board, to show that: while under the 29th section, a person could only be brought up'once for' the same child, under the 31st an order might be made over and over again by the magistrates.-Mr. George Smith, registrar and vaccination' officer ' for the Keighley' Union, proved the notices served upon the defendant under the Act to have his child vaccinated, and stated that he had not received any certificate of the operation. having. been performed... .In crogs- examination by Mr. Baker, witness said he had not seen the child since before the notice was served on the 9th October. He did not know that the child was now living, or, if it was living,'that it was not | vaccinated, He got no fees, for such cases, but was - 287 paid by salary. He supposed that it was in consequence: of the circular received from the Local Government Board that the Guardians had ordered these proceedings to be taken.-This closed the case for the prosecution.-Mr. Baker, in addressing the Bench at some length for the: defence, expressed the opinion that. in. all cases of vaccination prosecutions, and especially in: those which were: repeated..time after time against the same. persons, great care, consideration, and discretion..should be given to the..cases brought. before the: Bench.; He submitted that in this instance the case had not: been made out, :inasmuch .as. the complainant. had. failed :to prove. the existence of the child, or, if the child. :were in. existence, that it.-was still. unvaceinated.,...He contended that under. the: 3lst section there was no. reference made. tothe: reading ofa certificate .of unfitness or insusceptibility... He .chaxacterised the repeated proceedings taken against parents. who conscientiously objeeted to-vaccination. asi persecution, and submitted thatit'was not according-to the spirit of the Act that such. repeated prosecutions: should. take place. 'In support of this view, he.drew attention-to.the words of the section under which these. proceedings were taken. There was no such.expression.as "compulsory vaccination.''.in the Acti' .. There were no such, words in the title of the Act ; but in this section i was laid down that'the magistrates were not to make an order when the parent stated'a reasonable exeuse for non-compliance with the Act. | It was for: the Bench to consider-and he put this point strongly-whether, if & parent said' ke could not subject his. child to vaccination without, from his point, of view, incurring 'the risk of injury, that was not a reasonable excuse. . He further called attention to-the words in the: clause- '' shall, if he. see fit''as.a proof thatthe Legislature intended that a discretion..was.left with the magistrates in the matter of enforcing the 31st clause. . He further urged that there was a recognised and well- settled principle of common'law, that no man should be put in jeopardy twice for the same offence. .. This principle, he, urged, could not be set aside, except by being expressly inserted.in a statute. (There were no such, words in the , Vaccination. Act. He then proceeded to review the history of the legislation on the vaccination question, with. the view of showing that the Legislature never intended such, repeated prosecutions, and concluded by urging that the provisions of the 31st section were introduced not with the view of giving power to prosecute, or, rather, persecute, a man, if he had a large family, and objected to yaccination, aslong as he lived, but with the view. of coyering cases of removal from the district.of birth-Mr, Brigg asked whether the learned counsel meant. to base his: defence on the facti that. no proof had been given of the existence of the child ?-Mr. Baker said he did not do so.entirely; he rested. his case chiefly on the venu,he had. put. before the Bench, of the discretion which the law. placed.in their hands.--Mr. Hodgson said that the.defence which had been raised bythe learned. gentleman as to the proof of the existence of the child, would.not have been: made had the learned: gentleman :xead the summons, which 288 The Anti-Vaccinator. called upon the defendant "to produce the said child." Tf that had been complied with, the child could have spoken for itself as to its existence, or to whether it had been vaccinated.-In answer to the Bench, it was stated that the defendant had been fined 2s. 6d. and costs, on the 31st May, and 20s. and costs, on the 16th August, for failing to comply with the Act.- Mr. Brigg, in deciding the case, said that the arguments of the learned gentleman had not convinced the Bench that they had any option in enforcing the provisions of the Act. However much they might disapprove of vaccination, or however much they might sympathise with those who had what might be called conscientious objections to vaccination, they eould not either make or alter the law; they were simply there to administer it.-Mr. Baker asked the Bench whether, after the parties prosecuted had paid one penalty, the law had not been enforced ?-Mr. Brigg: Certainly not. The Bench held that the argument of Mr. Baker was not a good one, because not one, but several, offences might be committed under the Act. The Bench did not wish to deal harshly with those who conscientiously objected to vaccination, but desired to give them the benefit of any alteration which Parliament might make in modification of the law as it now stood. In the meantime, however, they had to enforce the law, and they could not do less than impose the same penalty as had been imposed on the last occasion-20s. and costs. Three other cases were then called - Robert Allsopp Milner, Joseph Birbeck, and John Greenwood. Inthe first two, which were similar to the case of Emmott, fines of 20s. and costs were imposed. In the latter case, being the first complaint, a fine of 28. 6d. and costs, was imposed.- Keighley News, Nov. 15. Leicester. An Anti-vaccinator and the Local Magistrates. -At the Town Hall, yesterday, John Henry Bradsworth, a young man, residing in Upper Conduit- street, was charged with refusing to comply with the Vaccination Act in not having his child vaccinated. -Defendant was proceeding to speak in his own defence, when the Magistrates' Clerk asked him if he pleaded guilty or not guilty to the charge.- Defendant said he had refused to have his chiid vaccinated, but he wished to show the magistrates whyhe could not comply with the law in this respect. -The Clerk said the magistrates could not hear him, but he understood the case would be postponed for a fortnight, if he wished, to allow of him complying with the order.- Defendant said he did not intend to have it done; and as he had a conscientious objection, he trusted the Bench would hear him. He held, as a reasonable excuse, that vaccination produced all kinds of filthy diseases; and was proceeding to read a paper he held in his hand, when told that evidence in the case would be taken.-The Vaccination Officer then produced the registrar's note of the birth of the child, and deposed to defendant having flatly refused, | - en being called upon, to have the child vaccinated. [January 1, 1873. -Defendant said he wished to plead for a mitigation of his fine. He held that vaccination was a filthy and abominable practice. There were hundreds and thousands of cases where children were actually murdered by it, and he cited a case in point which had been put before the House of Commons. The doctor in that case had admitted that the vaccine matter was the cause of death ; but in his own defence, had asked how was he to know whether the blood of the children was pure or not? 'Now, how was he (defendant) to know with what sort of matter his child was to be vaccinated? He quoted statistics to prove some of the statements he subsequently made, and said the time would not be long before compulsory vaccination would be done away with.-The Mayor said they had nothing whatever to do with defendant's conscientious objections, whatever they might be: their duty was to see that the Act of Parliament was carried out.-Defendant said he wished to plead for a mitigation. A man at Rugby, on urging conscientious objections, had-been fined 1s.; and, therefore, their worships had a precedent. -The Bench said defendant would have to pay a fine of 20s., or go to prison for fourteen days.- Defendant said if he had not been ill recently he should have gone to: prison; and added that such a law was a disgrace to the country.-Leicester Daily Post, Nov. 28. ; er Wigan. Vaccination Casea.-William Henry Knight, of Bradshaw-streect, Amos Jacques, of Market-place, and Levi Booth, of Wallgate, were proceeded against for not complying with orders issued on -the 380th September for the vaccination of their children.-Mr. Ackerley, clerk .to the Board of Guardians, prosecuted ; and' Mr. Halliwell, vaccination officer, gave evidence.-The defendants, against each of whom there were two cases, endeavoured to: obtain a reduction of the fine, and said the magistrates had.a discretion under the Act, and -might mitigate the penalties; but the Bench inflicted the full penalties of 20s. and costs.-Levi Booth, of Wallgate, was. summoned to: show cause why an order should not. be made upon him for the vaccination of his child.-Mr. Ackerley stated that some time ago the prosecution was withdrawn against the defendant on his producing an informal certificate to the effect that the child had not been sufficiently well to be vaccinated. -Mr. Booth now produced a medical certificate in the proper form, stating the child was still unwell; and the case against him was withdrawn. In answer to Mr. Lamb, Mr. Booth said he did not. intend to have the child vaccinated when it recovered.- Wigan Examiner, Nov. 16. ¢ The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz.:- Single copy, for 6 months...... ee AIS 6a Do. 1 AP SOC 4509S Osi 3 All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, ' addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds, .. .-, ,.. TT a aT Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and mC oma sie. Journal. "ie pe Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.8.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnighily, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anéi-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. ts All Communications to be sent to the Lditor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 49. New Series. January 15, 1873. [Price One Penny. = - = - oo Ss Contents, rat. Page Notes on Passing Events ......... gEcéponenuecc 289 The Mothers' Anti-Compulsory Vaccination LGPEIE ccoasdecqossad SOORCOEOOSADOONEOO soo ail Vaccination and the Poor...... eiotelsiovalevels:sistclerere% 291 Mothers, you must Petition! ...0.c..-..seteees 291 Should Vaccination be Compulsory? .......... 292 Vaccinators and their Doings .-........... Satee) 203 AS Puslerctor they Wxperts (ere cn cece s ons obooS. aoe Contemporary Doubters...... Riolorouitsisiisielers'svs.s 0:6 294 smallPox at Wigan ........ Sag 00D0C cocgaouc. se! Waccinabion) imi Elollamdy cr cise. ctcicisielssieisle' so ee 295 PITEOTT a PATEICLES tia)etelcrelsic's atelier <icie\~ oleleieisicsiclsiesie 296 Meeting on Anti-Vaccination at Barnsley...... 298 Vaccination Prosecution; Selby .........see-. 300 The Paddington Guardians and Vaccination .. 301 The Vaccinator and his Wife ............ceccece 802 Notes.on Passing Events. In this number of the Journal we publish the prospectus of the '' Mothers' Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League." It is a matter of no small gratification to us to see the ''Mothers"' of England taking so prominent a position in connection with a movement in which their interests are involved to an extent they can yet but little appreciate; and more so, to notice the influential names under whose auspices their undertaking is announced. Our readers will agree with us when we say the prospectus is complete in every department, and we can only augur success when so many good women and true are committed to the cause. The mothers of our nation's children can bind themselves together in no more ''solemn league and covenant" than one in which is comprehended the health and future wellbeing of their offspring. We invite mothers of every class of the community to unite in this grand effort to rid the kingdom of a rite whose pestilential influence is the curse of every home in the land. The poor--who feel this plague the most can resist it least; and it is amongst that class, in particular, that relief will be the greatest boon. In pleading for the poor, therefore, we ask assistance which admits of no denial-no excuse. it is no exaggeration to assert, and we do so without fear of contradiction, that the children of the poor fall two to one before this enemy of our race, when contrasted with the mortality amongst the children of the upper and middle classes. All must work in this cause. There is no mother who cannot do something; and from each we ask a contribution. One may labour with the pen, another can give of her substance, anda third must take a petition in her hand, and go for signatures from house to house. From the estimable Patronesses, to the able and industrious Honorary Secretary, there is a niche for each to occupy ; and we do not hesitate to affirm that female devotion never sanctified a nobler cause. For the Mothers' League our ''heart's desire and prayer to God is" that their labours may be abundantly blessed. 290   {January 15, 18738. In the old days of railway mismanagement, it was said (either by Punch, or some writer equally facctious) that the interests of the passengers would never meet with due consideration until the life of a director or a bishop was sacrificed! <A director at length met with that fate; but we question very much whether the catastrophe had any effect in reducing the mortality from railway accidents. It has been said, much in the same strain, that vaccination will never be discontinued until popular indignation shall fall foul of a doctor or a yaccinator! That event has come off, and the prophecy is in no danger of fulfilment, so far as we can discover; nor do we wish to profit by any such disastrous violence. Napoleon the Third said-'' L'empire c'est la pais: our agitation, our empire, is essentially one of peace; our weapons are fair arguments, supported by the ''common sense" of the people. to another column will be found a paragraph from the Medical Times and Gazette for Nov. last, announcing a serious riot at Khodjend (Turkestan), in consequence of the forcible vaccination of the common people by the Khan of Khokan. One of the surgeons met with his death, and amongst the objectors there was 'considerable bloodshed." We have failed to obtain any corroborative or more detailed particulars. News is difficult to obtain from the dominions of the Khan. JHis is aniron rule; and woe betide the man who ventures to assert his freedom of thought, or to exercise his conscience, when either of these functions are in opposition to a will that admits of no restraint. Whilst we sympathise with the '"'common people" of Turkestan, we must prize our own individual liberty in this free land of ours; for, as sure as fate, the same spirit which prompts the medical mind of Khokan is no stranger to the medical mind of this country. We have known medical men of late speak of showing us ''no quarter," of applying ''the whip" of the law with greater rigor; and we know what that temper indicates,-they would appeal to arms and force, if they dared to do so. On the other hand, there is real danger in the no distant future. The "'common people," who have ''common sense," and who hate yaccination as they do the midnight burglar, have of late assumed an attitude of defiant indignation, that must, sooner or later, be recognised by the Legislature, or we tremble to anticipate the calamities that will assuredly follow in its train. It is madness to suppose that ''compulsory vaccination" can be maintained any longer. Ye ''common people''-ye who have to sutfer the tenfold miseries of this abomination of Jenner, in the shape of manifold and communicated diseases-we ask you to assert your independence; to let the world see that yours is a holy crusade, and that the man who will take your child's life shall take yours first. Whilst you cherish determination, there need be no violence. Let your weapons be those that the good Gop above us will bless; and if He '< bless,' who is he that shall "curse" ? - A paragraph has recently gone the round of the papers, under the head 'Literary and Art Gossip," stating that '' Monteverdi, the Roman sculptor, is at work on the statue of Jenner." If the sculptor's task is voluntary, we are sorry to reflect that his is not a solitary instance of ''Loye's labour lost!" Perhaps the statue will be finished by the time the nations of the earth have discovered that there rests upon the memory of Jenner one of the hugest deceptions, and one of the greatest blunders, recorded_in the history of medicine ; a blunder to the account of which will, one day, be debited the needless deaths of millions of the human race. Jenner's name, at no distant time, will be hated and despised by all men. '""Money was his prayer,' and he got the answer to it in cash; and the thrice-accursed rite at length passed into a custom; and when England, who then ranked the first among civilised nations, and maintains that supremacy yet, adopted it, other nations speedily fell into the trap, and followed in her footsteps. We have now but one prayer, and it is that England may yet be the first to announce her full renunciation of the abomination of Jenner. We pity the Roman sculptor when we think of the unworthy object to which his genius is applied. Instead of perpetuating the form and January 15, 1878.] features of Jenner, it should rather be ours, in mournful sadness, to consign his name and memory to the forgetfulness of future ages. The history of Jenner, and his vaccine delusion, is destined to form one of the most startling and cruel chapters in the chronicles of the nineteenth century! Poor Monteverdi knows it not! Alas! he is not alone in his ignorance. The- Mothers' Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League. Patronesses. La Comtesse A. De Neailles, | The Hon. Mrs. Foley. General Committee. : Mrs. George Addey, Cork, Mrs. W. EH. Kenworthy, Mrs. T. Baker, Wokingham, Leeds, Mrs. Bruce, Massachusetts, Mrs. General Lane, Jersey, Mrs.Josephine Butler, Liver- Mrs. Mathews, Malvern, pool, Mrs. Morris, Upper Tooting, Mrs. Geo. Burdis, London, Mrs. F.W. Newman, Wes- *Mrs. Collins, Regent's Park, ton-super-Mare, Mrs. Ditchburn, London, Mrs. Nichols, Malvern, Mrs. Dornbusch, Victoria Mrs. Pearce, Clapham, Park, Mrs. Jno. Pickering, Leeds, Mrs. Fawcett, Hastings, Mrs. Pitman, Manchester, Miss Gerdtzen, Pinneberg, Mrs. Pratt, Durham, Holstein, Mrs. Robertson, Paisley, Mrs. Gibbs, Durham, Mrs. Robinson, Manchester, Mrs. George Gibbs, Dar- Miss Roche, Paris, lington,, Miss Frederica Miss Caroline Goldsmid, London, Upper Tooting, Mrs. Thomas Smith, Cork, Mrs. Gregory, Hyde Park, Mrs. Tebb, London, ¥Mrs. Hamilton, Streatham, Mrs. Thornton, London, Mrs. Hickson, Dublin, Mrs. Tyndall, Birmingham, Hiss Holland, London, *Mrs. Garth Wilkinson, Mrs. Hume-Rothery, Man- London, chester, i Mrs. Young, London. Executive Committee marked *. Medical Referees. Wm. Bell, M.D., London, Wiliam Hitchman, M.D., Rowan, W.J. Collins, M.D.,London, Liverpool, Wm. Galgey, M.D., Wigan, J. Mackenzie, M.D., Inver- Richd. Griffith, Ch.M.T.C.D., ness, C ork, T. L. Nichols, M.D., T. Le Grob, M.D., London, | | Chas. Pearce, M.D., London, Edward Haughton, M.D., John Pratt, Esq., Surgeon, London, Durham, E. Hearne, M.B., F.R.C.S. D. Turnbull, M.D., LL.D., Eng., Southampton, Cheltenham, J J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D., London. Treasurer. Mrs. Garth Wilkinson. Bankers. Messrs. Williams, Deacon, and Co., 20, Birchin Lane, H.C. Fonorary Secretary. Mrs. R. B. Gibbs, 78, Bolsover-st., Regent's Park, London, W- Foreign Correspondents. Dr. A. Bayard, Villeneuve- Baron Dirckinck Holmfeld, St. Georges, Paris, ~ Pinneberg, Holstein, Dr. Carl Both, Boston, U.S., Rey. A. Kuyper,Amsterdam, Rey. E. J. Bruce, Massa- Dr. C. C. G. Nittinger, Stutt- chusetts, gart, Wurtemburg, Dr. A. Capadose, The Hague, Dr.Schieferdecker, New York, Holland, Dr. Verde de Lisle, Paris, Dr. J. Emery Coderre, Mon- M. Jules Zuppinger, Baden, treal, Canada West, Argovie, Switzerland.  . 291 This Society is formed to unite all who are working for the repeal of the Compulsory Clauses of the Vaccination Acts; to influence parents to preserve the health of their children by resisting these Acts, under the present nefarious and injurious system-a system reckless of the quality and impurity of the lymph; to circulate information by means of essays, tracts, &c.; toform Branch Associations ; to collect evidence, and to petition Parliament. Subscriptions, donations, &c. will be thankfully received by the Treasurer, Mrs. Garth Wilkinson, 4, Finchley-road, N.W.; Mrs. R. B. Gibbs, Hon. Sec., 78, Bolsover-street, Regent's Park, London, W,; Messrs. Williams, Deacon, and. Co., bankers, 20, Birchin-lane, Cornhill, London, E.C. Post-office orders may be made payable to Elizabeth §. Gibbs, at the Vere-street Post-office, Oxford-street, London, W. Vaccination and the Poor. Prizes of £15 and £10. The Countess A. de Noailles offers these Prizes for the best, and second best, Esstys on "The Evil Consequences of Impure Vaccine Lymph* to the Poor ; and hence on the Special Injustice of Compulsory Vaccination to the Poor. No Essay to exceed 25 printed pages of 85 lines in length. The whole subject to be condensed, and quotations given as briefly "s possible. Tables of statistics to be excluded. The relations of vaccination to smallpox not to be discussed. he best and second best Essays to be the property of 'The Mothers' League," by which they may be printed either in full or condensed;-if condensed, the authors to be allowed to reprint the Essay zn extenso. The Essays to be sent in to Mrs. R. B. Gibbs, 78, Bolsover Street, Regent's Park, London, W., before March 31, 18738. The Countess A. de Noailles, and a select committce of "The Mothers' League," will adjudicate the Prizes. Mothers, you must Petition! We have received the following form of Petition from the active Secretary of the Mothers' League, and have much pleasure in submitting it to the consideration of the Leagues throughout the country. The present year should see the end of ''Compulsory Vaccination" Laws. To the Honourable the Commons of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assenrbled. humble Petition of " The Mothers' Compulsory Vaccination League." The Anti- * By "Impure Lymph ."' is meant lymph which carries of causes other disorders besides the cowpox. 292 Sheweth- That since the House of Commons appointed a Select Committee to inquire into the operations of the Vaccination Act of 1867, another Act of Parliament has been passed, even more despotic than its predecessors. Boards of Guardians are, under this last Act, compelled to appoint vaccination officers to enforce vaccination upon the people. Men and women, parents who have seen children die from the effects of vaccination, have suffered imprisonment for refusing to submit their children to vaccination ; while many parents have been repeatedly fined, some even eight times, for the same offence. So arbitrarily and mercilessly is the law carried out, that magistrates have inflicted the full penalty of twenty shillings, and legal costs in addition to the enalty. The tyranny with which Boards of Cerdians are overruled by Central Boards, at the instigation of officials of the Privy Council and the Poor Law Board (now called the Local Government Board), is subversive both of the English privilege of local self-government, and the liberty of the subject ; while the enforcement of the law infringes on parental rights, violates the rights of conscience, and makes criminals of peaceful and loyal citizens : Your Petitioners humbly represent that every head of a family has a natural right to choose among medical practitioners, and to resist the attempt, under whatever pretence, to infect his family with disease : Your Petitioners, therefore, humbly pray your Honourable House that the practice of vaccination may be no longer enforced by law, nor made a source of public expense. And your Petitioners will ever pray, &c. Should Vaccination be Compulsory e I should think few sane persons will deny that it is requisite to prove the justice and necessity of a law, before you can consent to its being enforced. What would justify a compulsory vaccination law? is a question that may very properly be discussed. I should imagine any unprejudiced person would say if the operation is (in itself) perfectly free from danger, and confers absolute immunity from smallpox 'on the recipient, then it might possibly be allowable to enforce the law; but certainly not otherwise. Some person may even go a step further, and argue that if it did not prevent but only mitigated the disease, then it might be justifiable to make the law compulsory. According to the reasoning of either of these parties, I put this query :-Is the present law, then, justifiable? What are the facts? We have had one of the heaviest visitations of the smallpox * Our readers would do well to obtain a small pamphlet, written by our correspondent, Mr, Pratt, surgeon, Durham, having the above title. It may be had of the publisher, Mr, J. H. Veitch, North-road, Durham.   (January 15, 1873. that has occurred, I believe, within the memory of ''the oldest inhabitant' of our city. What respect has it paid to the vaccinated? Without the slightest fear of contradiction, I assert that a sweeping majority of the persons attacked by this dread disease have been vaccinated; and on referring to the history of other towns, the same glaring fact meets our view, 'that the majority of smallpox cases have originated and occurred amongst the vaccinated." it may not be out of place here to remark that the theory propounded by Dr. Jenner was-that persons once vaccinated 'were protected for ever ;" but he (Dr. Jenner) lived long enough to witness the failure of his theory, which he admitted and attempted to explain in various ways. John Hunter, the greatest physiologist and anatomist that this country, perhaps, has ever produced, and who was acquainted with Jenner, wrote :-' The introduction by inoculation of mineral or vegetable poisons into the blood is hazardous, and in certain quantities may be destructive ; but the introduction of animal products from another living body, be it aman, cow, or even an ass, is infinitely more pernicious, because allied to it in being vitalised." Mr. Birch, who was surgeon to St. Thomas' Hospital, condemned the theory, and. after fully testing vaccination, declared it to be no protection against variolous infection ; for he says in his work, 1807- "We are yet left unsatisfied as to the nature and origin of what is called cowpox: it is a disorder known only to the cow-doctor in dirty dairies, though we are taught to play with it as a blessing revealed from heaven to this enlightened age." Moseley, Moore, Gregory, Copland, names known to every medical man, and many others, might be quoted, all of whom declared the theory to be fallacious. There is no proof whatever that vaccination will prevent smallpox ; but on the contrary, would it not appear that this artificial process of vaccination and re-vaccination sometimes predisposes the patient to an attack of smallpox? and would not this occasion the great majority of cases of smallpox during the late epidemic occurring among the vaccinated ? The first person that I attended during this frightful visitation was one who had been vaccinated, and not until the smallpox had invaded several other vaccinated families, did it attack an unvaccinated one. This fact proved to me that the so-called unprotected could not be looked upon as centres of infection, scattering disease all around. On the contrary, it was in the ranks of the vaccinated (otherwise unprotected) where the first shot took effect. Mr. Simon, the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, lately put forward a memorandum in the name of the Lords of the Council, where he states, that by vaccination in infancy most people are completely insured for their whole lives against an attack of smallpox; yet he subsequently states, partly because of the existence of a large number of imperfectly vaccinated persons, and partly because even the best infantine vaccination in process of time loses more or less of its effect, it is advisable that all persons who January 15, 1873.]  . 295 have been vaccinated in infancy, should, as they approach adult hfe, undergo re-vaccination; thus admitting that those persons, though believing themselves to be protected against smallpox, are really liable to infection, and may in some cases contract as severe forms of smallpox as if they had never been vaccinated. It appears, also, from this theory of Mr. Simon's, that Prince Arthur must have been improperly vaccinated, for it is only, I believe, about four years ago since he paid a visit to Scotland, caught the smallpox, and on his return home was attended by three physicians at Greenwich. J. Pratt. Durham. Vaccinators and their Doings, The following leading article appeared in the St. Helens Newspaper of Jan. 11, and we transfer it to our pages as evidence that the vaccination question is beginning to receive that attention from the press which its importance demands :- The conduct of our Board of Guardians, in reference to vaccination, is attracting the attention of gentlemen residing in distant towns. 'The vaccination prosecutions which they have instituted, and are pushing on with such indecent haste, are not likely to bring them much credit. We are not surprised to find parents in St. Helens objecting to submit their children to be vaccinated, if there be any truth in the reports which are constantly reaching us. It was only the other day that a woman with a little miserable and afflicted child in her arms, came to our office to ask our advice under the following circumstances. The child she held in her arms had been vaccinated some time ago, when it was a-fine healthy child: it had been ailing and wasting ever since. She had been to the parish doctor, who had vaccinated it, to obtain medicine for it. On a previous visit he had demanded, and she had paid him, a penny for the bottle in which the medicine was supplied. On the last visit she intimated that the child was suffering from the effects of vaccination; whereupon the doctor pushed her out of the surgery, and refused to give her any medicine or the bottle she had paid for. She had been to a chemist's shop in the town, and he had kindly given her a box of ointment for the little innocent sufferer, whose attenuated frame, sunken and sore eyes, and wailing cries, bore sad testimony of the pain and suffering it was enduring. If this woman's story is true-and a gentleman who happened to be present when she made her statement said he had heard of many such cases in St. Helens -then we repeat we are not surprised that parents should hesitate and refuse to have their children vaccinated. There are one or two points in this case, as stated by the poor pauper woman, to which we would call the serious attention of the Guardians. under the direction of the Board that a charge of a Pirst-Tsit- penny is made for the bottle in which the medicine is supplied ? We think such a demand made upon a pauper is not only wrong in principle, but is a most heartless extortion, and a convincing proof of the sordid and unfeeling character of the men who would descend to such measures. If the medical officer of the Union considers that the salary he receives does not remunerate him, let him by ull means resign the office, but never degrade his profession by resorting to such meanness and cruelty. Another point to which the Guardians cannot give too much attention, is-in taking the utmost care that every case of vaccination which is attended with evil consequences, or even doubtful results, be fully reported to them, and by them to the Board in London; to the end that the true value, or otherwise, of vaccination may be clearly ascertained, apart altogether from the monetary value it may have in the eyes of paid vaccinators. The public mind is becoming more and more unsettled as to the value of vaccination; in all a of the country the evils resulting from it are loudly spoken of ; and whether the sad results are to be attributed to the careless, reckless, and unskilful manner in which the operation is performed, the virus of the lymph, or whether vaccination is itself a delusion, we do hope that the magistrates of St. Helens will not allow vaccination prosecutions to degenerate into persecutions. If parents of cleanly habits and respectable lives-important considerations-have conscientious objections to have their children vaccinated with lymph the purity of which cannot be guaranteed, in all fairness let us not compel them by penalty and imprisonment to vaccinate, unless we can guarantee their children from any evil results. Vaccination is said to protect those who submit to it from taking smallpox ;-the vaccinated then have nothing to fear. But if there are decent, cleanly, and intelligent people, who do not believe in the theory, and who prefer to run the risk of smallpox rather than engender diseascs they know not of, why should we persecute them ? A Puzzler for the Experts. Vaccine Virus Leads to Incipient Hydrophobia,-A Man Who Caught Something Worse than smallPow.What Atled Wm. H. Young. Two woeks ago, Mr. Wm. H. Young, proprietor of the People's Omnibus line of stages, running on Wabash avenue, was vaccinated by Dr. Winer. Previous to that time, Mr. Young was in excellent health ; but to guard against all danger, and protect his family from the dread disease which was then pervading this city, he bared his arm to the surgeon's blade, and was inoculated. Mr. Young had previously been assured that the virus was free from all impurities. _ The next day Mr. Young began to experience slight burning sensations in his veins, These symptoms grew worse daily, until finally they pervaded his entire system, His feet and hands pained. oe him incessantly. His scalp grew inflamed, and he | His left arm | was swollen to twice its natural size. His sufferings | could not bear to have it touched. at this time were intense. Then, to his own astonishment, and the horror of his fumiy, the disease assumed the form of hydrophobia. At intervals he was seized with convulsions, during which the sight of water would throw him into a paroxysm of rage. While there was no tendency to injure anyone, he could with difficulty restrain himself from imitating the barking of a dog. Mr. Young finally determined om a change of physicians. He sent for Dr. Dexter, and the two M.D.s held a consultation at his bedside. As a matter of course, they failed to agree. In the meantime, the patient was growing from bad to worse. His pains were awful. It seemed to him that hot irons were being applied to all parts of his body. His arm had increased to vast proportions. Death seemed preferable to such an existence. Dr. Dexter insisted the arm should be poulticed. Dr. Winer was of a contrary opinion. Such a course would result in the death of the patient. Then said Mr. Young:-" Well, well, it must be kill or cure, and that at once. You have failed to cure me, and now I intend to have another man to kill me." Dr. Winer departed. | Poultices were applied for four days. Medicines in vast quantities were poured into the patient. Wet applications were numerously made to the arm. The scab was as large as a man's hand. 'The doctor informed the patient that if it did not break soon he would have to open it with a lancet. On Wednesday afternoon the break. occurred, and in a few moments one quart of dark matter had flowed through the aperture. Since then the sufferer has been resting easily. The pains have disappeared, and the swelling in the arm is fast decreasing. He will soon be able to leave the. house. The case is pronounced one of the most singular in the history of medical. jurisprudence. Its like hag never been known before in this city. '' Would you like to look at the sore?" said Mr. Young to an acquaintance. ~~ The gentleman had just been to lunch, and begged to be excused.-Chicago Times, Feb, 1872. Contemporary Doubters. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccsnator. Sir,-I have copied the accompanying letter from The British Friend of 1st mo. 1st, 1878, and as an evidence of progress In our movement, it will, doubtless, be interesting to you and many others who are well acquainted with the name of the writer. It is particularly encouraging when men of high standing (by the exercise of their own reasoning faculties) begin to see through the delusion.-I am, truly, aes On - Maryport, 4th 1, 1873,   (January 15, 1873. Small - Pox. To the Editor of the British Friend. Dear Friend, - Referring to the letter of our friend, Joseph Hopkins, on this subject, in the last number of The British Friend, I should lke to be allowed to say, that whilst good vaccination may bea | good thing, bad vaccination is a fearfully bad thing. Last month I visited a man and his wife who had applied for membership ; a granddaughter, of about seven years old, was living with them; she had been quite healthy all her life until she was vaccinated about eighteen months ago; since then she has never been well, and now suffers from boils and blotches on various parts of the body. She is woak and languid, and her cure seems to be impossible. In the house next door is a boy eight years old, equally healthy until vaccinated two years ago: he has never been well since, and it is not expected that he will ever recover his health. A friend of my own was vaccinated some months ago, and suffered subsequently from boils and whitlows, and was so affected that he had to pay a long visit to Harrogate before he recovered a fair amount of health, being not yet recovered. Had he not been able to go to a watering-place, it is probable that worse consequences would have ensued. Many other cases, more or less resembling these, have lately come to my knowledge; and J am now satisfied that compulsory vaccination is wrong. I am confirmed in this by the following:-A friend of mine was at Smedley's establishment at Matlock, and on speaking of smallpox, Smedley told my friend that no one ought to die from the disease, the water treatment was a certain cure; that he had hundreds of- cases through his hands, and had never lost a patient. My friend named this to a practitioner of the "old school,' who admitted that the treatment would be likely to succeed. He said-" Then, why do not you doctors adopt it ?"' The reply was-" Oh, it would not be approved by the profession."' I hope that compulsory vaccination will shortly be abolished.-I am, respectfully, _ Leeds, 41th month 13th, 1872. Georg (c) Tatham. smallPox at Wigan. Two Cases of . smallPox where ' Protection" failed, as usual, and where Vaccination did not ''modify"' the attack. The following correspondence has been sent to us for publication :- smallPox. 'The most noticeable feature in this month's list is the occurrence of two deaths from smallpox-the only ones we have had for nine months. . 'The subjects were half brothers, but resided in different parts of the town... Active measures have, however, been. taken to. restrict the spread of. the infection, which it may be hoped will prove successful. I am January 15, 1873.]  . 295 the real value of their vaccination returns, and also of the protection afforded by vaccination in preventing death from smallpox.-Yours respectfully, not aware of any cases existing at present.''-From Medical Officer's Report. Wigan, Nov. 16, 1872. To the Editor of the Wigan Observer. Sir,-May I ask the Medical Officers of this Union, or any of your readers, if the two fatal cases of smallpox of the last monthly report, resulted after vaccination ? 2. Were either of the patients re-vaccinated, and } how long before death ? 3. Did the last deceased visit his brother during sickness ? 4, Do the 'active measures taken to restrict infection" include anything new ? I have been requested to ask these questions through your paper, by a number of respectable ratepayers, who think the usual ''measures'' for preventing smallpox have been sufficiently tried, with the same result, another half-year having cost £392. 88. on Success yet in the future. "Hope deferred maketh the heart sick:''-only the hearts of ratepayers, it seems, for the doctor hopes on. The benefits are all on his side.-Yours respectfully, G. B. Wigan, Nov. 26, 1872. To the Editor of the Wigan Observer. Sir,-As the Medical Officer of the Union has not thought fit to reply to the inquiries of G. B., as to the two fatal cases of smallpox in the last monthly report, which appeared in your impression of the 22nd ult., we have this day visited the parents of the deceased, in order to ascertain whether they were vaccinated or not. The statement was as follows :- "Their youngest son, John Haresnape, was vaccinated at Bradford, in Yorkshire, and their son Richard was vaccinated at Tatem, near Bentham. The last deceased did not visit his brother during his illness, but attended his funeral." Why were the "active measures for preventing the spread of infection"' not put in operation after the death of the first brother? And why did the medical officer not state that these deaths occurred after vaccination, instead of withholding the truth from the public, when he has been careful to note in other reports that the deaths were those of envacetnated persons ? The ratepayers have a right to know the truth as to vaccination results, and not to be kept in ignorance of facts, to serve the purposes of a medical clique, who are interested in the practice of vaccination. Inquiry has been made about these cases at the office of the Registrar, who states that they are entered in his returns as dowbiful (not known whether vaccinated or not). Why are they entered as doubtful, when the truth was so easy to be ascertained on the subject? The people of Wigan may form their own opinion about the cause that needs to be supported by such miserable practices as these, as to | Amos Jacques, Levi Booth. Wigan, Dec. 11, 1872. . Vaccination in Holland. To the Editor of the Anti-vaccinator. The Hague, South Holland, Dec. 9, 1872. Sir,-It is a long time since I received any word or paper from you, and still I have a great desire, specially at this time, when the question of vaccination tion, and that by compulsory means, is under discussion in our Parliaments. In the last month the best means that could be promulgated by States law for the conservation of the public health was considered. A member (alas! I fear an unbelieving Jew) of the second chamber proposed an amendment to the existing law with regard to smallpox and vaccination. 'The law is very favourable, inculcating the duty of the operation, but not compulsory: by the amendment, however, the nature of this law is changed, and is in a high sense compulsory. No teacher, schoolmaster, or mistress may be admitted as such if he or she is not vaccinated; no infant unvaccinated may be received in public, State, or private school. T'his is indeed a most cruel law, enforcing the conscience of thousands of parents. Notwithstanding this, not one of the members declared against vaccination. Some good-feeling friends expressed an opinion against all compulsory means; but the law passed by a great majority-46 to 14. This law must be sent to the first chamber (House of Paris), and ifthe resolution is passed there it will be sent to the King; and once received by Royal assentment, it will have force of law-not before. Now, you conceive how urgent it is that by all legitimate means we must prevent this. From all quarters addresses, undersigned by many hundred persons, have been presented to the first chamber and to the King himself. I also sent to every member of the Parliament the little tract herewith enclosed, in which I make mention of the present opposition against vaccination in England. The sooner you can send me some new papers and the last number of the Anti-Vaceinator, the better. I am sorry that you find no opportunity to translate my work, because I treated the question on a scientific basis. Now, sir, God is true, and we fight for truth for His sake! Let us take courage. -Yours faithfully, Dr. Capadose. 296 The Antt-Gaceinator. Seed ees Mr. Clarkson, of Selby, has been again summoned before the magistrates, and fined in the sum of £6, including costs. This is really too bad! We were amongst those who thought the time had come when these proceedings should cease, Talk of prosecution !-it is persecution, and nothing else; and that, too, in the most abandoned form. The heartless and cruel manner in which the Guardians are behaving towards him, calls for the strongest condemnation. Policeman Smith stated to the court that Clarkson's house was so destitute of furniture that there was little or nothing left to distrain upon; and yet the authorities are not satisfied. During the hearing of the case, statements were made which show great anxiety to justify the extreme steps which have been taken. Mr. Hawdon (the clerk) said that the Court of Queen's Bench held that the penalties could be repeated. Very well, we know that; but the Court did not hold that they should be. The Guardians have an option in the matter, and very properly so; and so have the magistrates-the one need not prosecute, the other need not conyict. Mr. Clarkson is an industrious, honest, intelligent, and conscientious citizen. Neither Guardians nor Magistrates can deny that proposition; and we say, that the proceedings which have been instituted against him are a veritable disgrace to our civilization. The sufferings he has endured, and the sacrifices he has made, to comply with the law-so far as compliance is compatible with his convictions-by payment of fines and costs, have surely been enough to satisfy the greediest '"'upholder of the law." Selby may yet gain for itself the unenyiable notoriety of having well nigh exhausted all the powers which the framers of the Vaccination Acts did and did not contemplate.   {January 15, 1873. P The Chairman, in giving judgmert, referred to the "filthy language or abusive reports which had been heaped upon the Selby bench, because of the unpleasant duty which they had had to perform." We have no sympathy with 'filthy language," nor did we ever use it (indeed wo are not charged with it); yet, whilst wo entertain the greatest respect for Mr. Weddall (the chairman), we must not hide from him our real sentiments with regard to this case. Personally, we blame the Guardians far more than the Magistrates, because the former set the law in motion, and the latter do but adjudicate thereon, however harshly, at times, we consider they do it. Mr. Weddall is doubtless as conscientious in enforcing the law, as Mr. Clarkson is in resisting it; but this unseemly war between the law and the law-breaker should come to an end; and if the Guardians have not the sense to see that they have done enough to vindicate the law, the Christian spirit which should always distinguish those who are in authority over us, should, at any rate, temper justice with mercy. To refuse to vaccinate can never be magnified into a crime, even by the most zealous partisan; and the community fail to see that the punishment meted out to Mr. Clarkson bears the slightest relation to the offence. ''Mr, Smith said they were very wishful to show the defendant every leniency they could." Surely, the wish could not be, in this case, the father to the thought. Why did not the Bench dismiss the cases, and tell the Guardians they were sick of the persecution of this man, and would henceforth wash their hands of such | proceedings? Does Mr. Smith really think that £3 fines and £3 costs is the proper definition of "leniency"? If he does, all that we can say is, we do not so interpret the English language. | The Selby Express of the 10th favours the public with a leader on the subject; but as the editor knows little about it, and does not care to know more,-what he says is of the usual type. He speaks of ''the vast accumulation of scientific and other testimony in fayour of a January 15, 1873.] custom which facts, figures, and the most convincing proofs, show has effected so much good in this and other lands." The editor is careful not to refer in detail either to the '' facts, figures," or ''conyincing proofs." Perhaps he will explain how, in the presence of a complete system of vaccination, we have just passed through a more serious smallpox epidemic than any which has occurred within the memory of man? Again, we will thank him to say how it is that, with all his facts, figures, and vaccination combined, the death-rate from communicable diseases, such\as syphilis, scrofula, bronchitis, &c. &c., is increasing with such amazing rapidity? When the editor refers to vaccination as doing ''so much good in this and other lands," does he mean the good it accomplishes in keeping down the population, by introducing disease and death into every household? If he really refers to the stamping-out of smull-pox by vaccination, all that we can say is, the disease is not stamped out-it 1s stamped in. In all countries where there is vaccination, as a natural consequence there is smallpox. In Spain there 1s no smallpox, because there is no vaccination. In the large cities of Prussia, where vaccination and re-vaccination reign supreme, smallpox has done its demon-work to its heart's content. -As for the poor editor of the Selby Express, What will he say? Will he say-We have no smallpox epidemics as compared with what we had in the Middle Ages? Our answeris-We should have none at all if you would let us alone: cease to sow the seed by vaccination, and there will be no harvest-the reaper can put up his sickle. The. companion diseases of smallpox in the Middle Ages were the plague, black death, and sweating -sickness-all of which have disappeared; the smallpox remains, because it 1s kept alive by artificial means- firstly, by inoculation, and secondly, by vaccination. Take the lancet, and the smallpox poison, by force if need be, out of the hands of the yaccinator, and the smallpox will disappear as if by magic! The discasc, Mr. Editor, is kept among us by force of arms, by fines and imprisonment, by Magistrates and Guardians, and last, not least, by the stupid utterances of a Press that can no  . 207 more decipher the philosophy of vaccination, than it can interpret the cuneiform inscriptions on the Behistun rocks ! '"' Shall I go to prison, sir, or shall I pay the fines and costs ?" Such is the question put to us by a conscientious objector to vaccination. It is by no means a solitary instance wherein our advice has been sought, and where our reply has been acted upon promptly. There are cases where, under the existing laws, it would be very unwise and injudicious for a man to choose the severest method of complying with the Vaccination Acts, and go to prison. The Acts give us three alternatives-ecomphance, fines, or imprisonment. We cannot submit to the first, so that the option reduces itself to one of two courses of action. The difficulty, therefore, 1s much less than if the Act said-'' Comply, or go to prison.' Many of the most carnest advocates of vaccination entertain the notion that if there were only one alternative- obedience or imprisonment-opposition would necessarily cease. Would it? We trow not. Let them try it. Our Saxon blood must have sadly depreciated, if sucha result should ensue. So far as we are concerned, we would change the situation to-day if we had the opportunity. The greater the oppression, the speedier will be the change. be that as it may, we venture this advice under the present state of the law:-Where a man has an important business, a large family dependent upon his labours, or a delicate constitution, he is not justified in surrendering his liberty, and in selecting the hardest of the two extremes-pay or prison. It isclearly his duty to pay. But where an objector is not the head of a business concern, where his family would not suffer by his temporary absence, and when his health is in a vigorous condition, we have no hesitation in advising such a man to show the world that his temper is of the true martyr type, and that his conscience dreads not the four walls of a cell. Here let us mquire-'' Who calls for this sacrifice ? Who offers us this alternative ? Who is it that demands our hberty or our 208   (January 15, 1873. child's hfe?" Is it tho law? -Nominally, it is so; but in fact, and in very truth, members o if.is the the Medical Profession-it is our own doctor! We must put the saddle on the rigut horse. If the Act of Parliament-th Vaceination Act-under which crimes an iniquities are done that our immediate posterity will blush to remember, had been an Act stamped with the concurrence of the whole community, we should have had far more respect for its provisions. know this is not so. came from the brainless head of an idiotic member of the Faculty; it has been upheld by 'the professiun for a period of 70 years; the first Act was carried at the instance and under the advice of the same body; and they who now insist upon the heathenish ecremonial are the Medical Officer and Inspectors to the Privy Council; and the latter, in their turn, are strengthened in their folly and stupidity by the united services of the vaccinators,-in other words, the paid infectors. The Act of 1887 euy @) Unfortunately, we b) was carried in a small House, at dead of night ; " and the Act of 1871 was enforced upon a trusting Committee; passed into law on the evidence, or rather opinions, of medical men, as the phrase goes, of the first standing. It is a fact, therefore, that our oppressors-they who fine and imprison-are the very men who, of all others, claim our confidence, and thrive upon the very diseases which they sow broadcast in our families, by the rite to which we seriously object. How long shall we submit to this? Is there to be noend to it? Is this disease-tax, this death-toll, this vile device to enforce blood- money, to go on for ever? Docs the blood of a Hampden, or a Cromwell, really course in our veins, and evoke no resistance equal to the terrible emergency under which the nation groans? It cannot be! Fines and imprisonment, patiently submitted to for conscience' sake, are like the low mutterings of pent-up gases, which foretell the coming convulsion that shall shake the earth from pole to pole. Vaccination shall not perish alone. In the battle now raging are other elements mixing themselves up in the strife, equally mischieyots in their character, and demanding instant The rite of vaccination. solution. If we mistake not the reading of events, an unsanitary and filthy observance is not much worse than the unsanitary treatment of disease by the medicine men of our day. I''ree Medicine is a thing that looms in the future. The more knowledge people get of the miserable subterfuge of vaccination; how that the waves of epidemics are nothing but the waves of uncleanliness amongst the people; how that sanitary conditions, in person, of home, and of the country, are the only and the safest protection against zymotic diseases, are the best safeguard of the public health,-in that same degree will men trust themselves, and ayoid quackery and deception, whether from registered and not duly qualified, or from unregistered, and to our way of thinking, oftentimes duly qualified, medical men. Whoever is to blame, the objector to vacci-_ nation is yet subject to fines and imprisonment ; and whilst we counsel our friends to protest against the rite, let the consequence be what it may-yea, even to fines and imprisonment-it is still our plain duty to use every effort to secure a total repeal of the objectionable Acts. Armed Opposition to Vacctnation.-The correspondent of the Morning Post, writing from St. Petcrsburg on the Ist inst., says:-"I re-open my lotter toreport a serious riot at Khodjeut (Turkestan), in which no fewer than 10,000 men took part, the cause of offence being the compulsory vaccination of the common people. One of the surgeons who had been specially active was so roughly handled that he died on the following day ; and the disturbance ras not quelled without considerable bloodshed.""- Medical Times and Gazette, Nov. 9, 1872. Meeting on Anti-Vaccination at Barnsley. For the last week large placards have made known to the inhabitants of Barnsley that it was intended to hold a meeting in the Temperance Hall, on Tuesday evening, with a view of showing the evils arising from "blood-poisoning," as: vaccination was termed. 'The time fixed for the meeting to be held was half-past seven, and at that time the seats in the hall were almost empty. Gradually fresh arrivals increased the number of the audience, until the body of the hall was about half filled.- Pamphlets January 15, 1873. ]  . 220 against vaccination were given to the people present. Some of these were headed- '" Vaccination a folly and a crime," 'Compulsory vaccination opposed to science and freedom,"' &c. audience Myr. Councillor Joseph Wood, and Messrs. W.H. Lupton, Jas. Knight, Benj. Clegg, and J. G. _ Gradwell. On the platform there were Mr. Norman- sell (chairman), Messrs. Pearson, Weston, and Lindley (Sheffield), Mr. Wm. Turton (Hoyland), Mr. Winn, Mr. Smeeton, Mr. Marsland, and others. The Chairman, on opening the meeting, said that about.a fortmght ago he was requested by a few friends who had known him for many years, to preside over that meeting, and he did so on condition "that he was not in any way to support the movement, cither one way or another; but to come there as an independent man, just to preside over the meeting fur the purpose of allowing people to give vent to their feelings. With regard to the object being right or wrong, he thought that if any of their laws affected them, or any portion of the community, they had a right to meet and express their views upon them, with a view of getting them altered. The Chairman then called upon Mr. Pearson, who read the bill convening the meeting, and afterwards a petition to the House of Commons, which it was proposed to present to Mr. Stansfeld, President of the Local Government Board, praying that the Vaccination Acts be repealed. Mr. John Marsland moved a resolution that the petition be presented ; and . Mr. Smeeton, of Wombwell, seconded the resolution, and said he had seen many children the worse for vaecination. Their own clergyman had had his arm cauterised to prevent an eruption from spreading over his arm. The petition-a very lengthy and argumentative one-was read. Mr. Pearson then addressed the meeting. He said that vaccination was an attempt to improve upon God's best work-man ; and to improve it by putting into his blood the matter from a nasty cow. If they were in the habit of reading the newspapers, they would now and then see statistics in favour of vaccination, and representing that vaccination was a preventive against smallpox. . He wished that some gentleman wouid meet him with their figures on a public platform. In the four years preceding the passing of the. Vaccination, Act, which came into force in January, 1868, the number of deaths in Sheffield, from smallpox, was 321. At that time about half the children were vaccinated, and now nearly all children were vaccinated, and the number of deaths from smallpox during the last four years was 907,-or three times as many as during the four years previously. Speaking upon the power of fining persons for neglecting to have their children vaccinated, he said that Mr. Turton, Mr. Winn, and himself, had all been fined; but they were still determined not,to allow their children to be poisoned. He believed that the Act of Parliament did not There were amongst the | give power to magistrates to fine people over and over egain for refusing to vaccinate a child. The speaker, in the course of his remarks, alluded to "that fellow, Gradwell,'"? whom he compared to the serpent that tempted Eve. There was, he said, no justice to be found in English courts. He contended that vital statistics did not support the case of the vacecinators. Out of every 1,000 patients who went into the London smallpox Hospitals, 800 had been vaccinated. The proportion of deaths from all causes was greater during the four years since vaccination had become compulsory, than it was during the four preceding. Mr. Balk, in his work on vaccination, and Mr. Stansfeld, both held that cumulative fines were not contemplated by the Act of Parliament. 'The resolution was then put to the meeting, and carried without opposition. Mr. Schofield moved-"That, in the judgment of his meeting, the Vaccination Acts ere unconstitutional, unjust, that they override the rights of parents, and merit the condemnation of every honest man; and that this mcetirg pledges itself to resist their administration by all the means in its power." Mr. Scott seconded the resolution, and gave some of his own experience. He had a sister who was killed by vaccination. There were three children vaccinated from a child near Huddersfield. The child died in a fit. The mothers of the other children began to be afraid, and not without reason, for all the three children died. Doctors were said to be judges, but there was above 500 per cent. difference between any two doctors' judgments. Mr. Weston then addressed the meeting. He -said they heard a great deal about statistics to prove that vaccination did not prevent smallpox; and the medical faculty never came to their meetings to retute their statements. Vaccination was, in plain terms, a medical swindle. When the fuss about re-vaccination was going on in the Royal Family, Prince Arthur, who was vaccinated, took the disease.-| Mr. Pearson: Serve him right.]-If the audience knew as much about vaccination as those on the platform did, they woald as soon vaccinate their children as cut their throats. They ought to agitate until that Judas Iscariot, who was in the room a little while ago, was turned to the right- about. This world. was unfortunately under the influence of kingcraft and priestcraft. He hoped the women would not allow those sneaking fellows sent by the Guardians to enter their houses: and let all say that this law must be altered. Mr. Winn said that he had been fined for refusing to vaccinate his child. Before the magistrates he was allowed to say about half-a-dozen words, and those were-that if he had twenty children he would not have one vaccinated. He had told his wife that if Mr Gradwell- came to his house again, she was to. knock him down with the poker, ' Mr. Wm. Turton, of Hoyland Common, who was received with loud and prolonged applause, said he had been before the magistrates twelve or thirteen times, and had been robbed of £10. 8s. 6d. and £10 300 ---- more it had cost him for expenses. He had conscientious objections to having a child vaccinated. A child that was vaccinated close to him, died when five months old. James Pleasant, cabinet maker, Hoyland Nether, had four children; three were vaccinated and died, one was not vaccinated, and it now lives. There was another case at Platts Common ; died of smallpox after vaccination. There were a great many more. Sixty-four children were vaccinated in their neighbourhood, and all took the d sease, The resolution was then passed. Mr. Weston said that if any one wished, he might ask a question. (Cries of " Get up, Judas.'') Mr. Wood said that perhaps he might be allowed just to ask one question. It might not meet with the sympathy of every one there. It was-Why should the so-called "Judas" be so reviled? Now, with all due deference to the sentiments that had been expressed on the platform, he did not see why they should be so hard on men who were only doing their duty. Mr. Gradwell was simply a_ servant appointed to carry out the law. If the law was wrong, it was not his fault. He knew Mr. Gradwell as a friend, and he was as kindly disposed a person as anyone in that room, (Cries of '' Nothing of the sort.'') It might be said what Mr. Gradwell did, the guardians and magistrates were also compelled to do. He (Mr. Wood) had come there to listen to the arguments in support of Anti-vaccination tion. He had been entertained to some extent, and instructed perhaps. It might cause him to be an Anti-vaccinator. Mr. Wood went on to say that Anti-vaccinators alleged that some of the most loathsome diseases were infused into the human frame by vaccination. As medical men denied that such diseases were infectious in that way, he asked the speakers for proof. . Mr. Cowan asked, for the sake of obtaining information for the meeting as well as for himself, if Mr. Pearson, or any of the speakers, could tell him in what part of the United Kingdom vaccination had been the most strictly carried out, and in what part was there the least number of cases of smallpox? Mr. Pearson, in reply, said that Judas Iscariot was a character to be avoided. He did not believe that he was simply doing his duty; nor did he believe that magistrates and guardians were compelled to act as they do, There was no power in England to inflict a law that his conscience told him was wrong. The bench of magistrates at Barnsley could throw up their commissions, and the guardians could refuse to comply with the law. With regard to the question asked by Mr. Cowan, he said it was some time ago a great point of those in favour of vaccination tion, that whilst the Acts were most rigorously enforced in Ireland, the cases of smallpox were the fewest; yet, since that time the epidemic had broken out in Dublin, and in Scotland also, which was another stronghold. He had statistics to prove his assertions, and would give them to any one who   a daughter of Charles Slack's: (January 15, 1873. liked. He then answered the other questions put by Mr. Wood, with regard to persons being infected with diseases by being vaccinated, and alleged that the worst diseases were thus produced. A vote of thanks was then passed to the chairman. " The Chairman, in replying, said he had been willing to be at the head of that meeting, as there were friends connected with it whom he had known many years. With respect to blaming guardians, magistrates, or relieving-officers, it must be very ageravating to the persons summoned for neglect ; but there were always people ready to take any situation, and if Mr. Gradwell were to throw up his duties, others would take them. They should not blame those who were carrying out what they were instructed to do. The meeting then separated. - Barnsley Times Dec. 21. Vaccination Prosecutions. Selby. William Clarkson, of Selby, was summoned by Mr. R. Shipman, the vaccination officer of the Selby Union, for six offences under the Vaccination Act, viz.:-for neglecting to produce his three children, Arthur, Adeline, and Percy Allen ; and further with refusing to have those children vaccinated as required by law. We need hardly say that this is by no means the first time the defendant has appeared at this court on this charge. Mr. Banks, of Selby, appeared for the defence.-Mr. Shipman deposed that Mr. Clarkson had been summoned to produce the child Arthur on the 18th Nov., and had not done so. ° By Mr. Banks: I have not seen the child since Nov. 18. The proceedings are taken under the Vaccination Act.-Mr. Banks, for the defence, said that his client had appeared time after time before the Bench on these charges ; and he impressed upon them most fully, that Mr. Clarkson was not an ordinary law. breaker, a burly ruffian, or one who was in the habit of rolling about the streets ina drunken state. He hada conscientious objection to the laws of vaccination, and this might or might not be open to question. He claimed, as the father of (c) his own children, the common law right to have control over them; but that-it was well known- had been varied, so far as regarded vaccination, by Act of Parliament. He, however, still claimed, in defiance of the Vaccination Laws-to which he had conscientious scruples-that right to have the control of his children. He (Mr. Banks) would remind the bench that Mr. Bruce (the stipendiary magistrate of Leeds) had, when a-person named Pickering was frequently summoned before him for breaches of this Act, sent a message to the guardians, to the effect that as the law had been generally obeyed throughout the district, he recommended that they should not continue to prosecute a man like Mr. Pickering, who could not conscientiously obey the law. Mr. Banks also pointed out that sorters January 15, 1878. ]  . 301 several of the London magistrates had refused to inflict these cumulative fines. - Mr. Smith: Mr. Bruce did not refuse to convict; he only recommended that the proceedings should cease. No magistrate could refuse to convict.-Mr. Banks proceeded to point out that if the magistrate thought fit, it was not compulsory. Mr. Clarkson was a poor man-a clerk with a small salary-and he had been most heavily punished, having already paid over £30 for fines and costs; and he (Mr. Banks) now appealed to the bench, under these circumstances, to dismiss the case.-The Clerk (Mr. Hawdon) said that the Court of Queen's Bench held that the penalties could be repeated. That must be clearly understood.-Mr. Smith pointed out that they were now hearing the summons against Clarkson for failing to produce his children before them. What conscientious objections could he have against that? It was obstinacy, and nothing else. Mr. Banks then entered into the legal bearings of the case, contending that the proceedings should have been summary; and that the order was bad, being made in the absence of both parent and child. Clarkson was himself liable to a fine of £1 and costs for not producing his child; but it was not competent for the magistrates to make an order in the absence of both.- The Chairman: According to your argument, we never could make an order, for he would never produce the child.-Mr. Banks: But each time you could fine him £1 and costs.-Mr. Shipman read the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, to the effect. that the bench could proceed, even though the child was not present.-Mr. Banks admitted they could proceed without the parent, but said they could not without the child.-The discussion lasted for some time; and afterwards the other five cases, in which the same or similar objections were urged, were heard. .The bench overruled all the objections raised by Mr. Banks; and the. Chairman, in giving judgment, said they saw no new feature in the case. They should not be actuated by any feeling which might arise from the filthy language or abusive reports which had been heaped upon the Selby bench in certain papers, because of the unpleasant duty they had had to perform. 'They should do their duty fearlessly ; and should not, on that account, inflict a larger or smaller fine. In each of the three cases for non-production, they would inflict a fine of 10/- each and 10/- costs; and in the three cases of non-compliance with orders, they should also inflict a fine of 10/- each and 10/- costs; in all £6.-Mr. Banks applied for a case for the Court of Queen's Bench, and it was granted. Mr. Banks remarked, that he wished he could influence his client to have his children vaccinated. Clarkson asked for a day to pay the money in, and the bench gave him it, at the same time ordering seven days' imprisonment in case the fines with the costs were not paid.- Mr. Banks again took objection, on the ground that there could be no imprisonment under the Vaccination Act, and at considerable length went into the matter. -The Clerk held otherwise; and after some time, P.C, Smith was put into the box, and deposed that there were very few goods in the defendant's house. There were hardly any at all to distrain upon.-Mr. Smith said the Act of Parliament provided for no term or manner of imprisonment, and they would therefore deal with it under the Small Penalties Act. They could not allow Mr. Clarkson time to pay the money in under that Act, and it must be paid immediately, or in default, in each case, there would be seven days' imprisonment. 'The discussion lasted a long time, in the course of which Mr. Smith said they were very wishful to show the defendant every leniency they could. The case was brought to an abrupt conclusion at this point, by Mr. Clarkson paying the money down, an hour having been thus needlessly occupied.-Selby Express, Jan. 10. The Paddington Guardians and Vaccination. Sir,- With regard to the persecutions recorded in the enclosed extract from the Clerkenwell News of November 4th, I have written to the Poor Law Guardians of Paddington the following letter. I hope the printing of it in your valuable journal may induce others to do likewise. Wim. Young: 8, Neeld-terrace, Harrow-road, London. To the Poor Law Guardians of Paddington. Gentlemen,-Though the abuse of power exercised through you may ever so frequently renew the trouble and expense to which I have been subjected by the performance of what you ignorantly imagine to be a public duty, in carrying out the provisions of the Vaccination Act, let me assure you that, however eager may be your vindictive wish to compel the vaccination of any child of mine, you have a hopeless task before you. Fortunately, the intent of this accursed Act, which so deeply disgraces the statute-book of a free country, cannot be enforced. As a lover of humanity, and a consistent hater of oppression, I can, and shall, as often as you show your paltry and ignoble spite by instituting proceedings against me, choose the alternative provided by law-pay the fine. Rob me continuously by the tyrannical exercise of an iniquitous law, you may; but never shall you pollute the blood of my child with your filth. With regard to my fellow-countrymen .and parishioners in a humble sphere of life, who are the victims of your despotic vagaries, I cannot imagine that you ever reflect on the privation and distress endured in their abodes in consequence of the repeated infliction of finesand penaltics; nor on the mental anguish and anxious forebodings of parents, who have been bullied into a reluctant compliance with a detested law by the intrusive visits and unmanly threats of your hireling informer. Did you but think on these things, you would pause before you act. How true it is that men acting in a corporate capacity often ignore the dictates of conscience, and perpetrate deeds they would be ashamed 2 The Anti-Vaccinator, and (January 15, 1873. of as private individuals! It reflects no credit on you, as professing Christians, that you refuse to respect the conscientious convictions of men as honest as yourselves; but I trust the time is not far distant when you will cease to be led by the false and interested assertions of the larger portion (the indoctz) of the medical profession on this momentous question ; for assuredly, when you exercise common sense, and think and inquire for yourselves, you will see that this "pestilence which walketh at noonday," this pseudo vaccination, alias penal inoculation, alias blood-poisoning, the offspring of infatuated empiricism, is the greatest medical heresy that ever afflicted the world-a fraudulent scheme for enriching an endowed and established medical priesthood at the expense of the people.-I am, Gentlemen, your disobedient and aggrieved parishioner, Wm. Young. Gainsborough Board of Guardians.-The fortnightly meeting was held on Tuesday ; the Rev. H. Stockdale, chairman.-Mr. Brownlow, vaccination officer, reported that notices had been served upon Mr. Lister and Mr. Staniland, who had already been fined for neglecting to comply with the requirements of the Vaccination Act.-Myr. Mawer argued that the Guardians had discretionary power in these cases ; and that, in fact, they were not bound by the wording of the Act, in the first instance, to appoint a vaccination officer,-the Act stating that the Guardians may do so and so, and not that they shall. He therefore moved that in cases in which persons had been once fined for refusing to have their children vaccinated, they be not proceeded against a second time.-Mr. Oldman (the clerk) pointed out that Mr. Mawer was wrong in his quotation of the law; that he had been quoting from the Act of 1867, which might give discretionary power, but that an, Act had since been passed, in 1871, which made the appointment of a vaccination officer imperative. On the motion being submitted, seven hands were held up in its favour, out of more than twenty Guardians present, none being shown to the contrary, and the motion was declared to be carried.--Gainsborough News, Nov. 16. Anti-Vaccination at Malton.-A paper on *'Vaccination'' was recently read before the Malton Young Men's Christian Association. <A discussion followed, all the members taking part therein expressing their opposition to the practice; and a resolution was unanimously passed, declaring "compulsory vaccination to be opposed to the best interests of the nation.' JI should mention, that a medical assistant belonging to the Association had boasted in the town of what he should do when the meeting was held. Unfortunately, however, the opposition collapsed, our medical friend not making his appearance. I think some good might be done if you would suggest to the readers of the AntiVaceinator the desirability of bringing the subject before mutual improvement and kindred societies for their consideration.-R.C. The Vaccinator and his Wife. 'Parr £ She. "Oh! had I wings,'on high I'd soar, And visit many a distant shore, T'd stream across each varied soil Debas'd with superstitions vile, And circle round each dark retreat, The epidemic germ to meet : I'd spread abroad health-giving lymph On Moslem cherub, Eastern nymph, And all the rosy babes of Hind, From Simla cool to heated Scinde: O'er Zembla's snows, o'er Austral plains, O'er mountains of the New World chains, The mystic virus I would roll, " And purge the globe from pole to pole." ie. "Wholesale I love to re-vaccinate schools, And paupers at workhouses staring like ghools, Very properly subject to Government rules. Whenever the Poor Law Guardians shall order, I'll create in their bodies the greatest disorder ; On right and on left arm I'll act with decision, At eighteen-pence upwards cach double incision, And make for my family proper provision. As to conscience and right, these I hold in derision: Our conscience belongs to the party in power, Whose duty it is all its vengeance to pour On those who remind,them that once they proclaimed That their banners should ne'er be by tyrant acts shamed. Why should I complain at the general offer Of arms at all prices? IJ laugh at the scoffer: And the scoffer may laugh in his turn if he picase, While my sails are well filled with the popular breeze." She. "T havealways been taught by the cowpoxing school, That he who refused to submit to our rule, Was an obstinate, one-eyed, intractable mule." . He. '''Tis our modesty, love, makes us frankly ose Our opponents by vulgar and foul diatribe. And now I'm reminded-I had a rebuff From one of the class, and a reasoner tough ; 'Twas yesterday, my Betsy dear, e A patient ask'd me questions queer, And had the daring to dilate Upon my right to vaccinate, Unless some reason could be given Some theory into him be driven, About the wherefore and the why : (And, God knows! none cares less than I): Then raising up a mighty pother, Said, one disease might check another, Just as the doctors saved the nation In old times by inoculation ; But his dander rose, my darling spouse, At the very name of specks from cows ; January 15, 1878. ]  . ee "No such disease,' he said, with anger, 'Was known from Humber's mouth to Bangor; No such complaint did cows sustain 'Tween Yarmouth and th' Atlantic main: Unknown in France, untraced in Prussia, I said-''T was in the steppes of Russia.' You should have seen my vacant stare, When he replied-' The milk of mare On Russian steppes, by Tartar wild Is drunk by woman, man, and child, And occupies through all their nation The place of cow's milk in nutrition ; Though goats there climb, and reindeer browse, No cattle are so scarce as cows.' ' How, then, can rinderpest,' I blurted, Triumphing, 'be from steppes imported, As we are ofttimes told in speeches By those whose knowledge mine outreaches ?' He answered me with scoffing-' Nay, Dear sir, I really cannot say!' '"* His questions sore long time I bore; My answers were in vain: Though ill at ease, it seemed to please His mind to give me pain."' She. "On Wednesday se'nnight, after dinner, I read in Baron's Life of Jenner, A statement bold, in volume two, In correspondence from Macao,* That when the smallpox doth appear On China's soil, that plague doth kill One-third on valley, plain, and hill. Then use this argument, my dear, And prove that vaccination saves One-third of China from their graves, When epidemic scythe doth mow, As China's numbers plainly show : And read, to make your learning full, The evidence in Bluebook dull, In which we fright the British Dinah By wondrous figures drawn from China. Besides, my dear, you clearly know, We maul th' unvaccinating crew, Without the pretence to relent, At thirty-six and seven per cent., Which is one-third of every hundred ; Then let us hope their days are numbered : And home statistics, as you see, With those of China do agree," Fe. "I fear, my love, your brain is.small ; 'Tis very probable that all You know of China is its Wall. My enemies would coolly state That China does not vaccinate, And answer me with tongue so glib'Your grand statistic is a fib !' And I indeed have some misgiving The Chinese are not dead, but living ; * One-third of the people of China, ''when the natural smallpox is raging, are supposed to fall victims to it.'- Baron's Lifeof Jenner. Vol. ii., p. 83, One-third of China is too much To die in such statistic rush. And then, 'tis difficult to show That China ever is invaded By any such destructive foe As this, I clearly am persuaded : For trav'llers now say there appears Scarce once in every hundred years, An epidemic on that strand Equal to such as we command By vaccination in this land. Then give up China, love, and flout it, And let us say no more about it." She. "What we shall do, I can't conceive, If Jenner we may not believe. "Tis in his Life-the page will show it- This China tale, and well you know it." He. 'Our custom is, From what He says To take what suits the moment, And to avoid, With honest pride, Things that discussion foment. But hear this fact I've learned of late, And let your heart with joy dilate- China must soon submit to fate, The Chinese Missions vaccinate !" She. "Yet, if we shirk this grandest proof, Of our divine Vaccrxa's worth, Our enemies will stand aloof From tales of distant ends of earth ; And dire per centages, adverse To unbelieving souls perverse, Must be from other sources drawn, Else we submit to public scorn." He. "Oft as we mourn the dread event Of thirty-five and six per cent., To those within our reach, We're coolly ask'd for lists of names, And homes, and circumstance, which sh mes Our Faculty of speech.' Part. IT. She. "'T do not often read in town, But I am told-Sir Thomas Browne, In Charles' reign, was of opinion That if, in Adam's day, dominion Had been to him o'er mankind given, This earth would have resembled heaven ; So great the change he would have wrought In Adam's form and Adam's thought. Indeed, Sir Thomas, in lis pride, Might many a various item chide; He might have changed the whole design Attach'd to alcohol and wine ; i 304 The Anti-Vaccinator. [January 15, 1873. No headache, no disgust should follow The oligarch who aim'd to swallow The tithe of every vineyard bright, In cellar kept from mortal sight Of ervious democratic wight." He, "'TTad I and mine consulted been In grand Creation's opening scene F'en now I think, if I cou!d rule This globe's long course from Yule to Yule, Earth's chemistry I would reform, And epidemic germs disarm ; 'he dungheap at the cottage door Should do no injury to the poor, 3ut be a joy for evermore ; The well that soaks from dunghill drain, Should breed no ailings, cause no pain ; The child of earth, by muck surrounded, Should be at cleanliness astounded, And learn to live like pig in stye, Undangered by zymotic sigh ; And doctors should protect them gaily By specks from cows, repeated daily." She. "T've an idea, lovey! zounds! Go vaccinate the Pytchley hounds! Immortal Jenner (bliss receive him !) King George's staghounds did protect, And vaccine pus in them inject: Then imitate him, and believe him!''* He. 'Practice makes perfect, Betsy meek: There's little Grex, our lapdog sleek, On him my lancet [ll exhaust; T'll make him safe for seven years, On both his legs and eke his ears, And gain experience at his cost!"' She. "(Oh! indeed, you'll speck him, will you! If you touch him, I will trill you! No statistic shall he make! Your wise Faculty are gabies, Treating little dogs like babies : Touch him, and your beard I'll shake! Perhaps (like Mrs. Jones's wee thing) You'll certify its déath from tecthing, Or atrophy, because it's fat- You're capable of doing that! Or even that it died of vapours, Since no one overhauls your papers." Then, standing like a frenzied queen, ' Bespangled, in theatric scene, Ifer brow with*passion's gricf enlarged, Her blue eyes with heaven's lichtning charged, On dark eyelash the tear unbidden, Her pearly teeth half shown, half hidden, Emotion heightening every charm, Pride in her soul, Gre on her arm; Like organ's intoned thunder, she Gave voice to noble utterance free :- *In 1801, he vaccinated about "twenty of His Majesty's staghounds.''-Life of Jenner, by Baron. Vol.i., p. 460. hee '"No vaunted specks for Grex or me: We'll strike for life and liberty !"' Mvcser or Coxumpta, (startled). Ah! it is the "old, old story, Of a woman in the glory Of her kingdom over man." Laurelled Stanton's verses show it ; History's page confirms the poet ; So 'twas when the world began ! ! L' Envot. Lovely woman! we're your slaves From our cradles to our graves! D; Savage or Coe zed. -A Oe 1807. - Walter Bagehot writes:-'' A strange condition of mind in early nations is the corporate liability of states. Ifa tribe or a nation have, by a contagious fancy, come to believe that the doing of any one thing by any number will be unlucky-1. ¢c., will bring an intense and vast liability on them alli-then that tribe and that nation will prevent the doing of that thing more than anything else, and at the price of anything else. They will deal with the most cherished chief who even by chance should do it, as, in a similar manner, the sailors dealt with Jonah.''-Fortnightly Review. Non-vaccination being unlucky among our tribe, it must be suppressed at the cost of the dearest principles of the Liberal party-liberty of conscience. But is not this a retrograde step ? Karly tribes of savage races prohibited "doing": we prohibit '"'non-doing."' Hadleigh. - Neglecting to have Children Ha- amined.-James Pryke, of Thorpe, Morieux, cord- wainer, was charged by Mr. Richard Newman, the vaccinating officer for the Cosford Union, with having on the 19th day of October neglected to take his child to Mr. J. L. Growse, the public vaccinator for the district of Bildeston, that he might ascertain the result of the operation which was performed the previous week.-Joseph Long, of the same place, labourer, was similarly charged.-The defendants, . who pleaded ignorance, were each fined 6d., and costs 8s. 6d. -Time allowed for payment.- Suffolk and Tissex Free Press, Dec, 11. Neglecting to Vace/nate Children.-Owing to the large number of vaccination defaulters at Yarmouth, which it is stated amount to seven - hundred in number, the Board of Guardians have instituted several prosecutions against persons refusing to comply with the law. The bill for proceedings against three persons was presented to the Guardians on Friday last, the charges amounting to £19. 19s. as See and Essex ve ee Press, . The Anti- Scone: can be sepplliea'y (or ey to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. Single copy, for 6 months.......... as 6d. Do. 1 ER ACE BeOS - Od: All Orders should be accompanied by a etcuaees in stamps, addressed to 78, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Printed: by J. Ward, Caxton Squans Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator,  . Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.S.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. EP All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 20. New Series. February 41, 1878. [Price One Penny. Contents, Page Vaccination no Protection against smallPox.. 305 Lies St. Petersburo| Statistic ssc. as\j.% oe cies cas 807 Is the Cowpock Vaccination an Infallible Medical IDXOGRADEY Gn So Go he Ca See BEOCOOO ME EDT OADOr 303 State Vaccination a Destroyer .........0...++. 308 On the Vaccination and smallPox Question .. 38 A German Physician's Experience of Vaccination 308 DCV.EM MOLES! SOVEM esac acs swine edie srs es cas see 309 Anti-Compulsory Vaccination and Mutual Pro- EOCHTON) SOCICL Yo ci terticie w Som aidioeeaesiess ee ai aoe 309 SURV POLE OL. PXATI DLO ss, "j4:0's e:0p¢sus serene bs v5 3 6 310 Canada Petitioning against Compulsory Vacci- VEEL ORs stoi fst et ovo ee syctial " levayetaie Sfaloveraicict <-aveversictelerere 311 The Twice-Protected Germans.............:000s 3il A Selfish but not very Intelligent Guardian.... 311 AN GUEO Lic PAMULCIES 6, ":<terececicieiers ccs sreisieie esis. go8ose 312 '"*Then Show Them no Quarter' ...... ahaa rere 314 incland im. Wianteof Money... 5-2 scics:s'iele sis esis 315 Prescot: Boards Of Groardians, <.o0.<.6..0ssiewise eres 315 Darlington Board of Guardians........... sce BUT Vaccination Prosecutions: St. Helens, Maccles- Heide Barnstaples WOO, css sv ess "cue = ecleces ove 316 some Oley OUT CLNN Cay a aloe (a via wioete.e cra auetelojee eleveh ors eisie-s 320 VaccmaniOn and the ROOM scs-s0s.<ci0... eco esn 320 Answers to Correspondents ............. tnauaae 320 Vaccination no Protection against smallPox.* By J. Emery Coderre, M.D. Before the introduction of vaccination into England, fatal epidemics of smallpox were brought on by the inoculation of the variolous virus; and now they are brought on by the vaccine, which is no other than the mitigated variolous virus spoken of by M. Depaul. The first of these practices (inoculation) had its adherents, and it still possesses a few: the second (vaccination) has the great * The above extracts are translated from an Hssay, read before the Medical Society of Montreal, on the 3lst of January, and the 14th and 28th of February, 1872, by Dr. J. Emery Coderre, Professor at the School of Medicine and Surgery at Montreal, and Faculty of Medicine of the Victoria University. 'of the bad effects of vaccination. majority of physicians in its favour; but I dare to hope, in the interests of humanity, that time will eventually show all the danger connected with a practice that makes victims every day,-the idea of introducing into a healthy organism the virus of an inflammatory and gangrenous malady, in order to preserve it from a malady which does not exist) except in an imaginary fear which leads us to say- "Tam going to poison the organism of a child by introducing into its constitution the germ of a malignant malady, for fear it should take the same disease later on" -this idea is revolting to common sense. Has the practice anything rational in it? No-though it is followed by so many distinguished physicians. Is the disease inevitable? Is the remedy certain? In the first case, we may say that the majority do not take the smallpox; and in the second, the majority of smallpox patients have been vaccinated. In all epidemic diseases, it is only the minority of persons who are attacked by those diseases, as in cholera-morbus, typhus, &c. Therefore it does not follow that those who have been vaccinated, and who do not take the smallpox during an epidemic, owe their immunity to the vaccine. Vaccination has made victims among us: some have contracted smallpox in consequence of the inoculation of the vaccine; others have been attacked with gangrenous,ulcers, syphilitic sores, &c., resulting from the introduction of this virus into the constitution. I am now about to give you some extracts, which I take from a lecture I delivered some time ago at the Medical Institution of Montreal, on the subject ;The following cases are a few which I have selected from my notes, 306   [February 1, 1878. in support of my opinion as to the inefficacious, and even dangerous, results of vaccination , as practised here by some physicians :- The children of M.M. P-- and B-- died in consequence of vaccination. Dr. D has also seen children die in consequence of vaccination. He has also several times attended children suffering from ulcers of a malignant, and even syphilitic, nature. I have attended children suffering from ulcers brought on by vaccination. I have. heard of several such cases; and of others attacked with inflammatory erysipelas of the arm and the entire 'upper portion of the body on the side inoculated | with the vaccine. Some years ago I vaccinated five children belonging to four different families, with the same vaccine, and all had large pustules on the body, and small pustules on the arms and face; four of these children died on reaching the age of two years and a half. On examining the reports of burials published from time to time, one is struck with the increase in the number of deaths. Among children, the majority succumb to tuberculous affections of the lungs or lymphatics, or to scrofula. I now extract from the most recent of my notes the following few cases of smallpox, in order to show you that the preventative action of vaccine is not very certain. Out of 71 cases, 53 had been vaccinated, and 18 were unvaccinated; 16 died, of whom 11 had been vaccinated, and 5 were unvaccinated. Recapitulation.-1st case of smallpox. M.F-'s child, 8 or 4 years old, vaccinated; died. 2nd. M. L-'s child, aged 6 or 7, vaccinated ; died. 8rd. Three cases of smallpox, M.A-'s children, vaccinated ; one died. 4th. M. D-'s child, unvaccinated ; mild small Ox. . 5th. M. P-'s three children, vaccinated, malignant smallpox; one died, aged 5. 6th. M. L-'s two children, aged 3 and 6; one vaccinated, the other not; mild smallpox in both Cases. 7th. M. C-'s child, malignant smallpox. 8th. A child at T., aged 4, unvaccinated; mild smallpox. = 9th. Two of M. D-'s children, aged 4 and 6, vaccinated; mild smallpox. 10th. M. G-'s child, one year old, unvaccinated ; malignant smallpox ; died. llth. Three of M. H-'s children, vaccinated ; mild smallpox. The youngest, 27 months old, died, but I cannot attribute the death to smallpox, as the child was suffering from a tuberculous disease of the lymphatics, the result of vaccination. 12th. A woman, aged 30, vaccinated; malignant smallpox. 18th. A young man, L-, aged 19, vaccinated ; malignant confluent smallpox. aged 4, unvaccinated ; 14th. A young man, aged 20, vaccinated; malignant confluent smallpox. . 15th. A girl, aged 15, unvaccinated; malignant confluent smallpox ; still under treatment. 16th. Mlle. C-, aged 19, vaccinated ; malignant discrete smallpox. . 17th. Mme. D. G-, aged 19, vaccinated; malignant confluent smallpox ; still under treatment. 18th. M. G-'s child, aged 9 or 10 months, vaccinated ; malignant confluent smallpox. 19th. M. F-'s child, aged 4, vaccinated ; malignant confluent smallpox. 20th. M. M-'s child, vaccinated; malignant confluent smallpox ; died. 21st. Three of M. D-'s children, two vaccinated, had mild discrete smallpox; one, unvaccinated, had malignant smallpox, died. 22nd. M. D-'s child, about a year old, unvaccinated ; mild discrete smallpox. 23rd. M. P-'s child, aged 5, unvaccinated ;-mild smallpox. 24th. A boy, aged 17, vaccinated; mild discrete smallpox. 25th. Two of M. R-'s children, vaccinated ; mild discrete smallpox. : 26th. Two of M. A-'s children, aged 8 and 10, vaccinated ; malignant confluent smallpox of the worst kind; one of them has had several abscesses, and is still very ill. 27th. Two of M. L-'s children-one, aged 6 or 7, vaccinated ; malignant confluent smallpox. The other, aged 9 or 10 months, unvaccinated ; smallpox : died. 28th. Three of M. R-'s children, vaccinated; . mild discrete smallpox. 29th. Two of M. C-'s children, vaccinated ; malignant confluent smallpox ; one died. 30th. Four of M. L-'s children, vaccinated ; mild smallpox. 3lst. Three of M. S-'s children, aged 2, 5, and 7, vaccinated; malignant confluent smallpox; the one aged 2 died. 32nd, Seven other cases of malignant smallpox, in the same family (children of M. P. T-), vaccinated; two died. 3érd. Five of M. A. T-'s children, aged 1, 8, 4, 6, and 9 years; four unvaccinated, and one vaccinated, who, with two of the others, had smallpox for the second time. 34th. Two of M. A. C-'s children, vaccinated ; malignant smallpox ; one died. 36th. Two of M-'s children, aged 3 and 5, vaccinated ; malignant smallpox ; one died. 36th. A child of M. B-, vaccinated ; malignant confluent smallpox. _ Since these notes were made, I have had several other cases of smallpox; and in these also the persons -have been vaccinated. Now, the difference with regard to deaths in favour of the vaccinated is too slight to form a pretext for exposing children to the risk of catching a malignant and contagious February 1, 1873.]  . 397 malady, by the inoculation of degenerate vaccine, or that taken from diseased individuals. : In order more satisfactorily to prove to you that you should not put too much confidence in the anti- variolous action of vaccine, I will mention a few more cases of smallpox. M. B-'s eldest son, vaccinated at the age of six months, had fifty vaccine pustules. Eighteen months after, he caught most malignant smallpox from his brother, who had been inoculated | with the variolous virus. this case is-that the one who was inoculated had only a few pustules. Another case:-Recently, a child of four, vaccinated, took smallpox, and had it badly; his brother, four or five months old, unvaccinated, caught it, and had it very slightly, only a few pustules appearing. Another similar case occurred a few days ago in my practice. Where, then, is the preservative action of the vaccine in the different cases I have mentioned ? : ITsumup. Out of 71 persons attacked by smallpox , 53 were vaccinated, and 18 unvaccinated; 16 died, of whom 11 were vaccinated, and 5 unvaccinated ; adding two children who died in consequence of vaccination, we have 13 victims out of 55 cases of smallpox, although the vaccine had been successfully inoculated. In vaccination there is great risk of introducing into a child's constitution the germ of a tuberculous, scrofulous, or even syphilitic affection. During a variolous epidemic, it is not prudent to practise vaccination- this tending to dispose the person vaccinated to contract the smallpox fever. The majority of those attacked by smallpox -three out of four, at least-had been vaccinated. The severity of the malady was equally great in both cases ; which proves that vaccination, as practised now, is no protection against smallpox. Under present circumstances, it is more dangerous than useful to the public. (To be continued.) The St. Petersburg Statistics ; or, The Re-vaccination '' Puzzle" of the Vienna and British Medical Journals, By referring to No. 14 of the Anti-Vaccinator, p. 220, the reader will see the article to which we again wish to draw his attention. When the statement was published that during the Franco-German war, the smallpox deaths in the French armies were 23,469, whilst in the German armies the mortality was only 263, our A remarkable feature in | subjoin -- \ | particular attention to the health statistics, correspondent, Mr. Dornbusch, of London, wrote a letter to the Hackney and Kingsland Gazette on the subject. The journal containing that letter, and the quotation above mentioned, found their way into the hands of Dr. Wolbold, of Dresden, the editor of the Naturarzt :*- Dr. Wolbold immediately communicated with Dr. Oidtmann, of the Medical Department of 'he German Invading Army, whose reply we "' You rightly judge, that in my numerous marches and halts inthe campaign of 1870-71, I directed my After the taking of Verdun, I noticed that the rooms in which the French hospital patients were miserably decimated during the bombardment, were inexpressibly close and ill-smelling, breeding-places of smallpox poison. The only German physician of the garrison being unwell, it fell to my lot to root out these filthy lurking-holes of pestilence. At a later period, after the battle of St. Quentin, I was physician of the garrison staff of that place, and all the statistics of the French, German, and International hospitals for six weeks in succession, passed through my hands. Thenumber of French who during that time died in these hospitals, of pyamia (blood- poisoning) and phiegmonia (blood impurities), was so wonderfully great in proportion to the small deathrate of the German hospitals, that the vaccination statistics of your English newspaper can hardly admit of comparison with it. What, then, was the cause of the " protection" of our people from these two diseases? Had they been "inoculated" for pyemia and phlegmonia? Certainly not. But whereas in the French hospitals a veritable pest- atmosphere reigned night and day, yet at Abbeville, on the contrary, where we had no French army doctors, and where the arrangements of the hospital were inthe joint hands of myself and the medical men of the place, the statistics of recovery from smallpox were highly favourable, and indeed equal for French and Germans. The enormous difference between the smallpox mortality of the two armies was caused by the crying neglect of hygienic precautions in the French military department, and by the excessive concentration of their system of stationary sick depéts, a8 opposed to the freshness of the hygienic arrangements of the German hospitals, and the ambulatory movements of their scattered troops. No more decisive proof can exist of the correctness of my theory-that the strength and spread of smallpox is both proportioned to and progressive with the ° fostering and shutting-in of the smallpox vapour than these statistics of the Franco-German war. * In a foot-note to Dr, Oidtmann's letter, the Editor of the Naturarzt adds :-'' We thank Dr. Oidtmann, the clever hygienic pioneer, for this valuable communication; and you, good Mr. Dornbusch, cannot do better than supply a translation to the English paper, and then everyone who has eyes to see, may see how Vaccination Statistics are made up!" 308   {February 1, 1873. "Tt has long beena difficulty with vaccinators to decide whether recovery from smallpox is due to repeated vaccination, or whether it depends upon hygienic treatment, as ventilation, &c. If, as vaceinators often say, it depends upon vaccination solely, how can the French be blamed for omitting to ventilate their hospitals? or indeed, why need they have taken any precaution whatever, seeing that vaccination tion statistics have already compulsorily dictated the unchangeable rate of recovery in accordance with the strength and number of marks? How long will our illogical vaccination enthusiasts halt between two conflicting opinions, one of which must be erroneous ?" We need scarcely say how thoroughly misleading were the statistics given at the recent meeting of the Statistical Congress at St. Petersburg. Our only regret is, that we have not the same means of giving publicity to the explanation contained in Dr. Oidtmann's communication: and although we shall send this Journal to all the medical papers, there is not one of them that will notice the correction. The statistic has had its effect ; and what does it matter to the Medical Journals whether the figures were true or not? This correspondence will weigh with us-it will show us how thoroughly unreliable are all medical statistics -Hd. A. V. Is the Cowpock Vaccination an Infallible Medical Dogma? By L. Belitski. We translate the following critique on a work having the above title, reviewed in the Naturarat :- Belitski says in his preface :-''It will be shown here how the people have continually been led on for the last century and a half by unfulfilled promises and untenable theories ; and, up to the present day, deceived and injured by vaccination. The protection is impossible, regarded in the light of reason and science. The deceptive statistics put forward as infallible by the authorities in medicine and the power of the State, are the principal supports of this monstrosity of vaccination. When one of these three-the statistics-show themselves to be untrustworthy, both the others necessarily fall to the ground. And that statistics, as arranged up to the present time, have been deceptive, will be shown here by thé example of those of Nordhaus for 1871. We know how to throw back every accusation that is brought against us, in the same way as we have done the above, for we are not the aggressors, but those are the assailants who uphold the practice which injures both body and soul. Our teaching- in writing and word, and active refusal (in Prussia legally performed)-to submit to vaccination, are only acts of self-defence." On this principle, also, that of self-defence, in order to protect his skin (to speak literally), and not to offer himself up, like a sacrificial lamb, on the altar of vaccination, acted the author of the book which > lies before us. He has obtained his materials, with much industry and research, from writers both for and against vaccination; in order, first of all, to make himself quite clear as to this open question, and to protect his own body from injury; and then applied himself and his work to clearing up the doubts of others as to the manner in which so-called professional men (that is, physicians) disagree among themselves, thus throwing the laity back on the common sense of their own understanding. State Vaccination a Destroyer. 'Well may the question be asked-How it comes that the great majority of physicians approve of vaccination, and prize it as a blessing, when it really is a means of communicating disease? We cannot wonder at it, however, when we reflect that vaccination tion is intimately connected with the whole doctrine of the allopathic school, as to the healing powers of poisons. The man who admits the curative qualities of arsenic, mercury, strychnine, and belladonna, may certainly prize vaccination as a blessing; though such a doctrine is worthy of nothing but contempt, for if five grains of arsenic suffice to kill a man, then certainly a smaller quantity must be proportionately injurious, just as one grain of gunpowder is (in its degree) as destructive as a whole pound. What is poisonous to a healthy person, cannot be beneficial to a sick one. Even though excellent | results may appear to follow treatment by these means, yet the simplest understanding, when it comes to put them to the proof, will no more believe in them than in the stories of witches and goblins with which we amuse our children. The attentive and unprejudiced observer must, on the contrary, see with horror the disease that is sown broadcast by these agencies, and how much health and life are daily offered up to the Moloch of Medicine under the name of Science."'* On the Vaccination and smallPox Question. By Dr. Vick, Physician to the Hydropathic Establishment at Eckerberg, near Stettin. : At a Medical Congress held at Chemnitz, ~ Lower Saxony, from the 27th Sept. to the 1st Oct. 1872, a letter was read from Dr. Vick; ~ and in some remarks on the subject of vaccination and smallpox, the following passage occurs :* The above is taken from a work published in Berlin in 1868, entitled "'The Dangers of Vaccination and State Medicine."' 3 February 1, 1873. ] Public? Health. Journal. 309 I am sorry that I cannot personally attend the Congress this time, as I am too much occupied. I should have been glad to say a few words about smallpox epidemics, because in the year 1871-72 I had 652 smallpox patients under my care, of whom 431 were French and 221 German, of various origin and ages. According to my experience-from accurate notes made at the time-vaccination does not exercise the slightest influence in mitigating the force of the epidemic; for many of the patients had been recently vaccinated, some only 14. days, and others within 6 months of their being seized with the disease. The theory is propounded, that after vaccination smallpox is less severe. I contest it most vigorously; because the majority of those vaccinated were seized with the genuine smallpox (variola). Among the French who were not vaccinated, the spurious smallpox (varicella) principally prevailed; which speaks strongly against vaccination. You must be aware of the injurious consequences 80 frequently resulting from the vaccination of children. Vainly do I seek to discover the advantages of vaccination ! * A German Physician's Personal Experience of Vaccination. 'Vaccination itself, in many cases, does not run its course without a disturbance of the general health, accompanied by fever; also an artificially-produced temporary sickness; and frequently, among children, syphilis, scrofula, &c. is invaccinated with the virus, and if sundry records may be trusted, some children positively succumb to the effects of vaccination per se. And is not vaccination entirely built upon the supposition that almost all men must have smallpox either spontaneously or from contagion? Is not, therefore, the whole protection of vaccination-even if we leave out of consideration its injurious effects a conditional and very uncertain protection? Did not many of the German soldiers, who were re-vaccinated apparently with the very best results, shortly afterwards take smallpox? Imyself was vaccinated, successfully, three times; and in the discharge of my medical duties in a smallpox epidemic, took smallpox, and that with so serious a pneumonial complication, that only a residence in a tropical climate saved me from a chronic malady." M.D A Thought from a Working Man.-'' Believe me, sir, when I say-that I would rather eat dry bread all my life, than allow my child to be 'poisoned' by vaccination, that accursed thing. I[ hate it, because I have seen so much of the mischief it has done." 'The writer has been brought before the magistrates twice, and fined on each occasion. In his house a fine means a fine, for the money has to be saved by pinching at every meal! * Dr. Wolbold, the Editor of the Naturarzt (from whose pages we translate the above), makes the following remark : -'*One more to the many voices raised against vaccination. Their number must increase.'' | Seventy Times Seven. See report of meeting of Leeds Board of Guardians, p. 208. '*Mr. Crabtree: Mr. Pickering had a strong objection to obey the law, and he (the speaker) had strong objections to his children not being vaccinated. Rather than he should not obey the order of the magistrates, he would fine him seventy times seven ! Unlearned Poor-law Guardians should be told that the original Greek rendering of the text is not '* Punish your brother," but "orgive'' your brother seventy times seven. The sacred duty of punishing aman seventy times seven for one offence, is therefore not inculcated in the Testament. It is to be hoped that in the revised translation now in preparation, the sense may be made plain to the meanest capacity. It is clearly understood in the milder form by Oliver Wendell Holmes, who writes :"''The brother, we are told, We poor ill-tempered mortals must forgive, Though seven times sinning threescore times and ten." Ds Anti-Compulsory Vaccination and Mutual Protection Society. Honorary Secretary: W. Young, 8, Neeld Terrace, Harrow Road, London, W. Hon. Corresponding Secretary : W. J. Proudman, 50, Elgin Road, St. Peter's Park, W. Is formed to pay the fines and costs imposed on parents who are members, for failing to have their children vaccinated. Subscription-Sixpence per Month. Persons may be enrolled as Members by applying to either of the Secretaries, or any member of the Committee, --- Mothers !-Are your children healthy? If you wish to keep them so, and shield their young lives from withering blight, do not have them vaccinated, which means cutting and wounding their tender flesh, and poisoning their pure blood by putting into it what the Rey. Canon Kingsley truly calls 'filthy corrupt matter,' which carries disease and death, or lingering misery, to the dear ones. J if you love the little ones, join the Society, and protect yourselves and them. Union is Strength! 210 : Mothers and Fathers !-Those little ones are a precious trust to you from your and their Maker, to whom you are responsible for their wellbeing. Think you that He has made them so imperfectly as to make it necessary to have their blood mixed with poisonous matter, in order to preserve health or prevent disease P The very thought is blasphemy! and vaccination tion is a tempting of Providence. Have greater faith in your Maker, and fonder affection for your children than to submit them to the cruel curse of vaccination. '* Render unto Ceesar the things that are Ceesar's, And to God the things that are God's.'' Join the Association ! Rules of the Anti-Compulsory Vaccination and Mutual Protection Society. 1.-That this Association be called '"'The Anti- Compulsory. Vaccination and Mutual Protection Society." 2.-The objects of this Association are- First - Specially to provide funds in the way provided by Rule 4, to pay the fines, &c. imposed on the members through failing to eomply with the provisions of the Vaccinat.. 1 "cts. Second-To take any action that may be deemed advisable to promote the repeal of compulsory vaccination. Third-And generally to take such steps as may be considered expedient to diffuse information for the promotion of the above objects. 3.-That the affairs of the Association be managed by an executive committee, secretary, corresponding secretary (to whom all letters should be addressed), and president, to be elected annually by the members. 4,-That a subscription of sixpence per month constitute membership; and that the committee shall have-the power, at their discretion, to make calls on the members for special purposes, such calls not to exceed one shilling. : 5.-That members failing to pay their subseriptions, or meet calls, forfeit their membership. 6.-That a donation of 10s. 6d. and upwards, constitute the donor a permanent honorary member. 7.-That the committee and officers meet at least once a month to transact business; and that four members form a quorum. ; 8,.-That there be a general meeting of members once a quarter, and at such other times as may be considered necessary. 9,-Persons wishing to join after Lady-day next, must be nominated by a member and approved by the committee. 10.-That no addition to, or alteration of, these rules be made except at a general meeting of the members.   % [February 1, 1873. The Force of Example! To the Heditor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sur, | Es mutch abuv a shillin man as is a won poun tenner, So mutch abuv is feller-man is gloryus doktur Jenner ! _ Thems mi sentements; an ive maid a diskuver witch wull lingk mi naim wi thet wundurfool grate mans as a bennyfaktur ov the wurld fur evver an devver. a littel wile ago sum o mi pigs hed a deseese o thur ies witch maid thare ies luke jes lik the ies o mi childer wen tha ad the meesuls-i seed at wunst thet these ere deseeses ov the pigs an the childer ware both alike cos I ad offun eerd oy meesully pigs-i skratched sum ov the limp owt ov the pigs ies an begun to praktis purfesshunlee. the pure littel childer squeekd sadlee on 'the limp beein 'skratched into em. tha ware summot poorlee arfter the skratchen, but tha didnut hev the meesels no morr, an if tha did it wasunt arf so bad. But the peepel hoose childer i did ware werry ongrateful- tha was as bad to me eg tha ar to them kind gennelmen hoo skratches '"'kows imp" intu the harms of littel babies-an sum ov the parunts even sed thet if the childer didunt ev the meesles tha diied fastur ov other deseeses, an ad a lot more bad deesorders witeh tha nevvur ad befor the happlikashun ov mi 'pigs limp."' but isune settles em-i ses this is a dokturs kweschun, yu mus giv yure childer jes wot the doktur likes to send, jes as yu must giv em jes wot the butchur likes to send wethur its bad or good i ses. but sech sillee peepul will sa ennythin. i des sa tha belong to them "'silly antivaccinators "' asthe Lance-it werry properlee kawls em, and wot rite ev tha got to they enne opinyun about thur childer i shud like tuno. Yu will be glad to eer i am goin to appli to govvurment fur an akt ov parlyment to be past to maik parunts ev thare childer " piggilated"' wi mi "pigs limp"' es soone es tha rekuvver from the scratchen in ov the "kows hmp"' an thet tha be persekuted fined an imprisunned if tha dont av em dun. I am on the rode to furthur grand diskuvvers on the saim plan, an 1 ope to be hable to keep awl childer hunder the dokturs ans from the moment tha ar born until tha ar abowt sixteen yeers hold. ishud like to eer ov sum persons hoo will allow thare childer to be " dogginated""? wimi "dogs limp" fur idrofobea, ees gone mad, and thinkif tha as idrofobea in thare infuncee tha wont av it wen tha gro up. i awlso hintend to make hexperrements upon childer we tipus feevur, kollerur, skarlet feevur, konsumshun, an awl kinds ov bad deseeses, ef thare parunts will kindlee sendum tume. miadress isin the Ampsheer direktoree. The hignorance ov the peepul sadlee inturfeers wi the progress ov my hexperrements, but es tha submit to let thare littul babies be skratched fur '"kows limp' i ope thall see it to be eekerlee reesunabull to av em skratched fur " pigs limps"' "dogs limp,' &c. i kan konseeve ov nothin mor byuteful than that the kow, the dog, the pig, the orse, an awl uther hanemuls shud in thare turn awl himpart thare interesten deseeses to ower littel | February 1, 1873. ] hinnosunt hinfants, an so kontribyoot to thare elth an long life. but iam sadlee afrade ov this stiff- necked jenneration. i av alredde hurd that sum peepul think it onreesunabul to put the farther of a fammelee into prison bekos e : will not av is littel orfspring skratched fur '"kows limp," witch is monstrus. oping the peepul will gro wisur an mor manlee an let those littel babies suffer, i ham sur, i e 1 yours sinceerlee Eneree Wilyums. Canada. Petitioning against Compulsory Vaccination. ** To the Honourable Sir Narcisse F. Belleau, Knight, Lieut.-Governor of the Province of Quebec. "The Petition of the undersigned Citizens of the City of Montreal, respectfully sheweth : "That all that part of the Act 24th Victoria, ¢. 24, to render more general the practice of vaccination in the cities of Quebec, Three Rivers, St. Hyacinthe, Montreal, Ottawa, Kingston, Toronto, Hamilton, London, and in the town of Sherbrooke, which might affect the interest and the liberties of the inhabitants of this province, should be at once repealed : "That the provisions of said Act, which render vaccination compulsory in the cities of Quebec, Three Rivers, St. Hyacinthe, Montreal, and in the town of Sherbrooke, giving to the respective Couneils of these cities and town the power to establish Health ' Offices, for the purpose of forcibly practising vaccination, are an infringement of the personal liberty guaranteed by our Constitution : "That compulsory vaccination, so far from having proved efficacious, as regards the city of Montreal, has oftentimes been the cause of serious accidents, and sometimes even of death: "That every citizen ought to be perfectly free as to the choice of the means best fitted to secure his own health and that of his family, without being compelled by law, whilst in a state of health, to guard against a disease which perhaps he may never contract ; and which treatment, as far as it regards vaccination, is in itself a virulous agent, and of a nature to inoculate a virus producing sometimes dangerous and even mortal sickness. 'Wherefore your petitioners venture to ask the repeal of the law establishing compulsory vaccination tion : *"' And they will ever pray, &c. (Signatures follow on here.) '*Montreal, Nov. 1872." The Twice-Protected Germans. To the Editor of the Anti- Vaceinator. Sir,-I send you a copy of a letter, received a short time ago, from a Franco-Canadian physician, resident in Montreal.- Yours, &e. A. Wheeler. Darlington, Jan. 15, 1873.  . eek: Montreal, 6th Decr. 1872. Dear Sir,-I received with pleasure your letter of the 16th Novr. I thank you for it. Iam glad to perceive the interest you take in a question which concerns humanity in so great a degree; and especially when society is so cruelly outraged as it is in your country, by the operation of so barbarous a law as that of compulsory vaccination. According to the partisans of vaccination, the most and best vaccinated country is Germany. The German population of the western portion of the United States is composed of emigrants, and the majority of these are vaccinated. smallpox broke out with violence among the Germans,* and has now extended to the general population, although vaccination was much practised during last year and the present. Many physicians now-a-days share our opinions relative to vaccination, and I hope the number may increase. We must persevere, and we shall succeed in demolishing a practice which makes so many victims.-I am, sir, your obedient servant, M.D A. Wheeler, Esq., Darlington. A Selfish, but not very Intelligent, Guardian. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Cork, Jan. 10, 1873. Sir,-Compulsory vaccination is based on one of the worst passions of human nature, and that is- selfishness. The following is an instance of this:- A friend of mine met a Poor-law Guardian in the street, and related to him some cases which had come under his personal observation, of injury to children by means of vaccination. The reply of the Guardian was-''I don't care a d -- what harm it does, so long as it keeps off smallpox." ; This is the feeling which actuates magistrates when they impose repeated penalties. They don't care what harm is done to their neighbour by vaccination, so long as they obtain some fancied protection for themselves. This is, no doubt, a very degraded sentiment. It is almost useless to reason with such people. In their blind fear they cannot listen to argument. Selfishness has usurped the throne, and cruelty and oppression are her handmaids. Anti-vaccinators should organise to resist this blind tyranny by every means in their power. T. Q * In confirmation of the above statement, Dr. sends us the following paragraph from an American paper :""smallPox Epidemic.''-Buffalo, N.Y., Dec. 2.-The smallpox is epidemic here, having spread to such an alarming extent that the city has been divided into 35 districts, and physicians have been appointed to vaccinate the city at the public expense. The published statement of the City Health Officer for the last month announces 138 deaths from smallpox , and it appears to be gaining ground. The disease is proving-very violent. It has raged to a large extent among the Germans, fully seven-eighths of the deaths being in the territory occupied by that class; but during the last week it has broken out in all parts of the city.' BI) The. Anti-Vaccinator and [February 1, 1873. the Antt-Gacetnator. ane ee February 1st, 1878. Rrnteitiny ale wiiain eimintel ainiele wean ets icles ''Then show them no quarter." The Prescot Guardians having set the lawin motion, haying begun to prosecute conscientious objéctors, do not like the idea of withdrawing from the struggle; and so, although they see the unhappy position they occupy in being compelled, as it were, to proceed in such cases, they have not the manliness to stand out and say- "We will not be tools in the hands of the Medical Officers of the Privy Council to coerce our fellow-townsmen in this matter.' The chairman, Mr. Marsh, knows as well as we do that the magistrates have the option of convicting or not, as they '"'see fit; and he is aware that the Guardians have an equal option resting upon themselves-they need not prosecute. Shame upon you, Mr. Brown, to give utterance to the sentiment-'' Then show them no quarter!' What-show them no quarter, because the parent wishes to protect his offspring from a vile, disease-tainting operation an operation which, in the very nature of things, can only result in poisoning the blood of his child! What-show them no quarter, because the objector has gone deeper into the question than you have, and has discovered the foul pollution of the rite; the miserable fraud of Jennerism; and, above all, the plain and simple truth that cleanliness is the best '' preventive " against zymotic influences! and would you punish him because he is so far ''a better man than thou"? Can you do this thing with impunity, Mr. Brown? We would warn you, if it comes to showing ''no quarter," it is a game at which two can play. The tables may be turned upon you, and you may have to learn the humiliating lesson that your opponent has drunk a deeper draught of Godly wisdom, and has learnt before you the best of all lessons, to "do unto others as you would they should do unto you." "Show them no quarter, then!" Let us hear no more of such senseless talk. Learn to respect the man who, to protect his child, dares to challenge the law to do its worst, and shrinks not at the prospect of fines and imprisonment for conscience' sake. To the objector, vaccination is a source of mischief which, es like the blast of pestilential winds, Taints the sweet bloom of Nature's fairest forms."' 'The parties summoned had been writing to the newspapers," said the Chairman. What a terrible crime! At any rate, that sin must be avenged! 'To stand up and oppose the majesty of the the law is one thing-to write to the newspapers is a leaf out of another book: one may be forgiven, the other-never! Did it never occur to the Chairman, or Mr. Brown, that if they were to write to the newspapers, they might win oyer an erring brother? Let them try. We turn with some degree of pleasure from the report of the Prescot Guardians, to the prosecutions at St. Helens, heard before Major Pilkington, on Monday, the 13th January. The only quarrel we have, is with the officious Mr. Spencely, the clerk, who, when Mr. Edington was defending himself in a very intelligent and businesslike manner, pertinaciously stopped him on two occasions, by saying he ought to have a '' legal gentleman"' to conduct his defence. The simple truth is, Mr. Spencely, '' legal gentlemen" don't understand our case, and if we went to them, they would retort-'' Yours is a medical question, I don't understand it. You ought to take the opinion of a medical man, as to whether vaccination is good or bad;"' and so between the two it would be difficult to please either, however desirous we might be of doing so. With very few exceptions, ''legal gentlemen," when they have been employed, have but rarely showed any great acuteness in conducting a case; the principal reason is, doubtless, that they argue to please their chent, to earn a fee, but without haying the slightest sympathy with the views of the objector. be 7. \ a February 1, 1873.]  . Major Pilkington deserves our thanks for the manly manner in which he gaye judgment. He 'said-'' There may be more or less doubt about the matter, and inasmuch as I have seen a great deal of persecution with regard to non- vaccination, my opinion is, that when proceedings are carried to a certain point, they should be dropped." : It is said that vengeance is more implacable when it is found amongst men of the same class, rather than between men of different classes. Working men are more intolerant with members of their own order, and the same holds true of the middle and upper classes. The Guardians may yet say of Mr. Edington -'*Show him no quarter." Major Pilkington takes a different view. He says, in effect- '* Prosecution in your case is persecution, there is no sense in it, and having no sympathy with it, I shall inflict a nominal fine." The fine was 1s. and costs. If Mr. Edington should be summoned again, we hope Major Pilkington will take the highest ground, and dismiss the summons, accompanying it with the rebuke-'' The Guardians must pay the costs."" We promise the Chairman that, at no distant day, the conviction that he stood between the persecuted and his mistaken tormentors, shall afford him a gratification that shall compensate him for taking exceptional action in this matter. If the Chairman could really assist Mr. Edington to protect his children from the smallpox, depend upon it the first thing is to see that the little ones are not tainted with smallpox matter in vaccination tion. The philosophy of inoculating a person with smallpox, in order to saye him from contracting the disease in after years, is a piece of wisdom akin to that of blowing a man from a cannon's mouth in order to save him from the risk of being accidentally killed with a pistol! Vaccination is based upon two fallacies- firstly, that all men are sure to have the smallpox ; and, secondly, that it is better to have it communicated when in health, as in that case the disease will run a milder course.* Precisely * Sir H. Holland, in his '' Medical Notes and Reflections,'' says:-''The fact of exemption from a second occurrence of the disorder is doubtful; and what appears such may be the same arguments were used with regard to inoculation. All men are not sure to have the smallpox: nay, so far from that being true, we announce the simple truth that no man need have it. So far as the second argument is concerned, we affirm that it is opposed to our experience. Inoculation spread the very disease it was intended to check; and history confirms the fact, that when the disease was given to healthy subjects, it did not modify the attack, for the mortality from smallpox was greater under inoculation than in its absence ; and so it is with vaccination. With all our vaccination, the mortality of the people is increasing, and there is no wonder that it should-the ''sweltered venom" of vaccine poisons the young blood of the nation, and in its pretensions to save us from one disease, creates a score of others as direful as smallpox itself, There is one folly which was committed in connection with inoculation, but from which we have so far been spared. In the Gentleman's Magazine for 1752, p. 127, a writer signing himself ''Norvicus,"' says of inoculation-'" 'Tis in some measure, though not fully, proved that they who have had the smallpox, and they who are never to have it in the natural way, can't be infected so as to receive it by inoculation." What asad commentary on the absurdities of the past to know that inoculation is now a penal offence ! and not before the time- it counted its victims by '' millions." vaccination tion is another name for inoculation. The matter used in both operations is identical-it is smallpox virus. If one is a penal offence, there is no reason why the other should not be, but every reason in the world why it should be. We are coming to the end. Every hour, as it passes, brings us nearer to the time when the people shall see how they have been fooled by the Faculty; and when they once catch the often merely the effect of a different time of life in altering the liability to the morbid cause; or giving it direction to other parts of the body, and thereby changing the whole aspect of the symptoms. The latter view, under a more general application, has been repeatedly noticed, as sanctioned by various facts, and leading to many curious imferences."' p. 414, 2nd edition.-But the writer is speaking not of smallpox, but of whooping-cough !   [February 1, 1873. 314 inspiration of that thought, vaccination will share the fate of its sister rite of inoculation. They are both demons that belong to the underworld, whose sentence is-that they perish for ever, and vex mankind no more. During the last six months we have had frequent appeals to give some assistance towards the formation of a Society having for its object the protection of the poorer members of our Leagues. We are fully aware of the fact that thousands of poor men entertain a repugnance to vaccination, which is only limited by their means, and their inability to resist the law. A fine of £1 and costs to a working man isa demand which he cannot possibly meet without getting into debt; and the knowledge that the infliction can be repeated over and over again, sets the matter at rest: for him, as a rule, there is nothing but compliance, and he submits with an ill grace, and with many a bitter foreboding. The difficulty we felt was the utter imprac. ticability of providing a general fund-a fund which would really have to be maintained by the richer members of the society for the benefit of their poorer brethren:-in the end. it would come to that, however fairly it might start. In answer, therefore, to .our many correspondents, we have recommended each district to take in hand individual cases when they presented themselves. To make arrangements that would be equal to the occasion, we saw the importance of rendering such an organization practically self-supporting. Whilst we were corresponding on this subject, our friend Mr. W. Young, of London, has solved the problem, and launched a '' Mutual Protection Society," the rules and prospectus of which will be found in our columns. 'This society meets the difficulty. Itcan be managed by each League almost without cost, and it offers every possible security to the subscribers. it is a Working Men's Club for their mutual protection; and if the various Leagues throughout the country will take this matter in hand, they will contribute in no ordinary way to bring about the result for which we are all striving, and thus shorten our labour, and effect a speedy alteration in connection with the health and life rates of the nation. We are not afraid of too many organizations; they - all point in the same direction-have one common object; and it gives us pleasure to recommend this new agency, which will assuredly be a very efficient helper to the cause. The society commends itself to our judgment, because it is based upon the principle of self-help. It ought to be a most humiliating reflection to the members of the Medical Faculty, to think that we have to establish Journals to agitate this question throughout the country, and to create societies for the protection of our families against a practice the direful effects of which they ought to see at a glance, and be the first to disown and discontinue. "Then Show Them No Quarter!" To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-Vaccination is now all the rage and the theme in St. Helens, the golden image set up by Jenner before which medical men are so prone to fall down, and at whose shrine they worship, and having the ear of the House of Lords, plume themselves upon their elevated and lofty position, and look with disdainful contempt upon all who doubt or challenge the divinity of their Deity, or who will not sacrifice upon their altar, and upon it offer up their offspring. Vaccination is or may be construed by possibility into a pocket question, the Clerk to the Guardians, on the 26th December, having said "they had 871 cases on the books since March last, which had not been vaccinated." Suppose from these 871 the odd number 71 is deducted, which will be 8°151 per cent.-a very fair allowance for outsiders and those children who are positively unfit to undergo the operation. Taking, then, the unvaccinated in the Prescot Union in round numbers at the money value lost to the public vaccinators, the account will stand thus- 800 Infants at 1s. 6d. per head... ... ... £60 0 0 The Clerk and Registrar, 800 do. at8d.each 10 0 0 0 0 0 The Vaccinator Inspector for the same number'at the same price... ... ... .. - 20 £80 0 which doubtless to them is a very trifling and insignificant consideration, and would not in the slightest way influence these high-minded, upright, and thoroughly conscientious gentlemen to take proceedings against a few who entertain a different opinion to themselves on the vaccination question: yet taking a more comprehensive view of the whole matter, there lurks a secret suspicion that the more upright and conscientious men appear to be, at any rate in their own estimation, they seem to have little or no feeling or regard for the conscientious scruples and opinions of the opponents of an unrighteous and unscriptural law; and for the sake of humanity I hope and trust that only one Guardian exists who could exclaim ''Then show them no quarter!" this good and amiable man forgetting himself at the moment that February 1, 1573.]  . = there are three ways of administering justice, namely- with severity and rigour; with moderation and common sense ; and with clemency and mercy. For example- at Leeds a fine of 20s. and 17s. 6d. costs are inflicted ; _ in other places 10s. and costs; and at Leek a fine of 6d. is imposed, with proportionate costs. The Clerk, in all good faith and fairness, considers it his duty to carry out in all its integrity this vicious Vaccination Act; but he should remember that other people may possess a conscience and sensibilities not inferior to his own. In vain may the vaccination inspector shout "Great is the goddess Diana of the Ephesians!" his calling and avocation are well nigh gone, his craft in danger; and vaccination will speedily disappear before the light of truth, of reason, of common sense, and of public opinion, and be as the glimmering of a taper light before the effulgent splendour of a midday sun. So true it is that '*God made man upright, but that he has sought out many (wicked) inventions '--amongst the rest, vaccination tion, which is unpardonable presumption, as an attempt to improve the bodies of infants fresh from the hands of the great Creator of mankind.-I am, &c. Harkforward. (c) Dec. 30, 1872. Ireland in Want of Money! To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,--Some few years ago we Anti-Vaccinators were told that wehad nota leg to stuud on, and it was useless to argue the Vaccination question, which was settled for all rational minds by the complete stamping out of smallpox in Ireland, owing, of course, to Compulsory Vaccination. But, sir, I think we may lay claim to our legs again, and stand pretty firmly on them, on reading the following extract from a letter which has been addressed by the Rev. Joseph Galbraith, I'.T.C.D., to the Editor of the Saturday Review. UHcw men, in the teeth of these facts, can have the cffrontery and audacity to talk of, and foist upon the public, the bestial practice of vaccination, as an antidote and specific against vaccination, passes my comprehension. 'Tarring and feathering is the hghtest punishment their iniquity deserves. "JT now proceed to prove my statement as to the greater intensity of the smallpox plague in Ireland during its late visitation. The figures I give are calculated from the official returns made to the Medical Department of the Registrar- General's Office. In Liverpool (population 493,346), during the second and third quarters of the year 1871, when the plague reached its greatest intensity, the deaths resulting from it were, in number, 1,741. In Dublin (population 310,565), the number of deaths for the corresponding period of 1872 was 1,267. In Cork (population 90,851), the number for the same period was 700. Taking Liverpool as a standard, and calculating the deaths in Dublin and Cork in proportion to the population, we obtain for Dublin 1,096 deaths, and for Cork 320. These should have been the numbers of smaill-pox deaths in Dublin and Cork, on the supposition the these | cities were cqua: ; well protected Ly pr Cane (ners aig cination as Liverpool. How, then, are we to account for the 171 preventable deaths in Dublin, and the 880 preventable deaths in Cork? What will the people of Cork say when they hear that this "most preventable disease,'' during its three months of greatest intensity in 1872, swept off, in proportion, three times as many of their citizens as it did in Liverpool in 1871, during a corresponding period; while, at the same time, the sum allowed from the Imperial Exchequer for preventing the disease in Ireland amounts to exactly ninepence halfpenny in the pound on that which is allowed for preventing it in England? I can answer for it, that the feeling in Ireland is universal that it is mere waste of time to bring such matters under the notice of Treasury officials-particularly under such a Chancellor of the Exchequer as Mr. Lowe, who, if asked for any addition to the grant, would, I have no doubt, after his model of the Egyptian taskmaster, take away the pittance we have, saying-' Ye shall no more give vaccine lymph to this people to prevent smallpox ; let them go and gather lymph for themselves.'"' Upon the facts, the pro-vaccinators are placed in this dilemma, viz.-if the complete absence of smallpox in Ireland in 1869 is due to vaccination; ag triumphantly asserted by them, then we Anti-vaccinators have an equal right to attribute to the same cause the virulence of the present epidemic: if, on the other hand, the virulence of the present epidemic is not due to vaccination, equally the disappearance of smallpox in Ireland, in 1869, had no relation whatever to vaccination. They may take their choice. Medicus. Prescot Board of Guardians. The Guardians of the Prescot Union held their usual fortnightly meeting at the Board-room, Whiston, on Thursday last; Mr. 8. Marsh in the chair. Guardians present-W. Johnson, E. Johnson, W. Molyneux, R. Brown, A. J. Cowley, W. Morton, P. McKinley, J. Penketh, W. Stockley, R. Swaine, C. Wilcock, J. Ball, P. Gregory, W. Smith, J. Ranson. . The Vaccination Prosecutions. Mr. McKinley: Have we to pay for the prosecution of the vaccination cases ? jerk; Yes. Mr. McKinley: Is the inspector paid anything extra for attending the court ? Clerk : No. Mr. McKinley: In case the parties who are summoned fail to get their children vaccinated, will you still proceed against them ? Chairman: Of course we shall, Clerk: It is no use beginning to prosecute unless we follow it up. The Chairman, in reply to Mr. Johnson, said, when the parties Had been convicted, and the matter had iin Gormant for six or eight months, fresh sum8   [February 1, 1873. monses would be taken out again if the children were not vaccinated. 'hat was the course that has been adopted in other towns, one gentleman in Manchester having already been convicted tive times, and they were now at him emp: Mr. Gregory: I think that is a very wrong thing. Chairman: It is the law. Mr. E. Johnson : Have tae magistrates the option of convicting or not ? Mr, Marsh: Certainly. Taey can please themselves, and say the case is dismissed. Mr. McKinley : It is said in St. Helens that the inspector had not been authorised to prosecute. The Clerk said he was ordered. No Quarter ! The Chairman asked if the inspector of vaccination was to be authorised to proceed in the regular way, in case the parties summoned refused to have their children vaccinated ? Mr. McKinley said he believed in vaccination, but he thought it would not be fair to compel persons to vaccinate their children when they had conscientious objections to it. The Clerk said there were 871 cases on the books since last March, which had not yet been vaccinated ; and if they did not carry on this case, it was probable many of them would not comply with the regulations. The Chairman said the officer would not proceed unless he received their authority. Now that they had commenced proceedings, he did not see how they could withdraw. The Clerk said neither could he. law in motion, they should proceed. Mr. Brown said it would be very wrong to withdraw. The Chairman: If they did withdraw, they might as well dispense with their vaccinationinspector. If nothing was done in this case, they could not take steps against others. r, E. Johnson thought they could not interfere in the matter. The inspector must do his duty, without fear or favour. When the case was before the magistrates, they would judge it. The Chairman gaid the parties summoned had been writing to the newspapers. Mr. Brown: Then show them no quarter. -St, Helens Newspaper, Dec. 28. If they put the Darlington Board of Guardians. The Cost of Enforcing the Vaccination Acts. The fortnightly meeting of this Board was held in the Board-room, Yarm- lane, Darlington, on Monday morning. Present-Messrs. J. H. Bowman (chairman), C. Ianson, H. K. Spark, W. Thompson, KE. L. Pease, A. Kitching, Do Ery;) WoC. Parker, R. Luck, CO. Coates, T. Dent, R. Simpson, T. Parlour, C. Middleton, J. G. Grace, 'W. Dent, W. A. Wooller, 8. R. C. Ward, S. Rowlandson, George Chapman, Jos. Cumber, EF, Robinson, and R. Wade. Vaceination. A letter was read from Mr. E. B. Spence, protesting against re peated prosecutions for the non-vaccination of his childr en, as an injustice to himself and an unnecessary cost to the ratepayers, The Chairman said the subject had been before the Finance Committee, where they had passed a bill for £15 for the expenses of vaccination prosecutions. Mr. Spence's name appeared no less than three times, for each of which 10s. was paid. Itwas well that the ratepayers should know what they had to spend over these men. The Clerk would have to reply to Mr. Spence, informing him that they had merely the law to administer, and if they neglected to do this the Local Gevernment Board would apply the same powers to them as they had done to the Hastings Board. A discussion followed as to whether 'these costs could be recovered, and the matter was left in the hands of the Finance Committee. Mr. Wilkinson (relieving officer) reported the results of the vaccination prosecutions for the previous week. Mr. Ward said it appeared that the Union was put to an expense of about £100 a year by these prosecutions.-Darlington Times, Dec. 28. "i Npectneation Prosceu ion: Sa al ada dd Re Ser et tert rss St. Helens. At the Petty Sessions, on Monday (before Mr. W. N. Heald and Major Pilkington), the Guardians of the Prescot Union, through their vaccination inspector, Mr. Dalton, prosecuted three persons, with a view of compelling their compliance with the Vaccination Act. The defendants were -Henry Knowles, bootmaker, Market-place ; John Edington, chemist and druggist, Hardshaw-street; and John Hunt, joiner, Windle-street.-Mr. Knowles, before coming into court, undertook to comply with the law, and pay all costs, whereupon Mr. Dalton asked the withdrawal of the prosecution. The case of Mr. Edington was then heard. Mr. Spencely (clerk) called his attention to the fact that he had been noticed to produce the child. The Defendant said he had not brought the child. Mr. Dalton then said, that on the 22nd November, 1871, he asked defondant if he had got his. child (Harold S. Edington) vaccinated. Defendant declined to answer any question on the subject. In November this year he told Mr. Edington he had not yet received a certificate of vaccination, and Mr, Edington told him not to expect it. When he reported the matter to the Guardians, they directed him to issue a summons under the 31st section, and direct the child to be produced in court, so that it might be seen whether or not vaccination had been performed. There was a penalty for failing to produce the child, February 1, 1873.]  . a7 Cross-examined by Defendant: Do you know a child of the name of Harold 8. Edington ?-I do not. Have you ever seen it?-I have not. Do you, of your own knowledge, know that sucha child is living within the limits of the Preston Union?-I do not. Still, you have reason to believe he has not been vaccinated ?-Yes, There was a child of the name registered on the 4th November, 1870, and no ccrtificate of vaccination has yet been received on account of that child. I take it for granted, therefure, that there has been no vaccination. Defendant : Inasmuch as Mr. Dalton is not able to prove that such a child is in existence, I must ask if I need proceed further with the case ? 'Mr. Spencely : You had better go on. Cross-examination resumed: Still, you maintain the child has not been vaccinated ?-I do. It is merely a case of suspicion P-Yea. Defendant: If I understand the Act right, it is the duty of the medical officer, not of the parent, to send the certificate. Mr. Spencely: The child is not here. Defendant: It is not within the limits of the Union. Mr. Spencely: You are the child's father, and can fetch it if you like. Defendant : I have no more questions to ask the witness. All I have got to say is, that if the magistrates think there is a case against me, I should lke to address them in mitigation of the penalty. Mr. Dalton: I do not ask for a penalty. The object of the proceeding is to obtain an order for vaccination within 14 days. Defendant : Most of us are aware that one great argument in favour of vaccination is this Mr. Spencely: Stop, we are not going into that matter. The Chairman : We have the Act of Parliament to guide us. Defendant: I have to point out, in connection with the 31st section, that it is not compulsory upon the magistrates to make the order sought. 'he clause says the justices "may, if they see fit.' The question has been raised as to whether magistrates were bound to do certain things, but the section does not say "must" or 'shall,' but that the justice "may, if he see fit,' make an order under his hand. The reason I object to produce the child for vaccination tion, is simply because I don't believe in it. Mr. Spencely : The law says you must. Defendant: We know it was supposed to be a protective against smallpox, but all experience teaches that it 1s not so. Mr. Spencely: That would be a nice thing to discuss somewhere else, but it is not a question for discussion here. The Act says the thing must be done, and therefore you need not go into a wild discussion of a medical question which has no effect on the case. Defendant : I wish to place before their worships the fact that I object on conscientious grounds to what I consider not only unnecessary, but at times productive of harm. The Chairman: We cannot go into that. Defendant: Then I must bow to your worships' decision. The Bench then made an order to have the child vaccinated in 14 days. . Mr. Hunt's case was next taken up. The child was not produced, defendant representing that it was out of the union. Mr. Dalton said he called on defendant on the 26th ult., and received the reply that the child was not going to be vaccinated, as he did not believe in it. Defendant further said that it was a great grievance and a great wrong to compel him against his will. Defendant asked Mr. Dalton his reasons for saying that the child was not vaccinated, but Mr. Spencely interposed to say that that was not a question. However, defendant persisted, and Mr. Daltcn explained in this, as in the previous case, that the non-receipt of a certificate led to the action. Defendant: Is the non-receipt of a certificate conclusive evidence of the non-vaccination ? The Chairman: That won't help you. You will have to get the child vaccinated in 14 days.-St. Helens Newspaper, Dec. 14. At the Petty Sessions, on Monday, John Edington, chemist and druggist, appearcd to answer a charge of having neglected to fulfil an order of the court requiring him to have his child vaccinated. Defendant said he wished to make an application for an adjournment. 'The summons had only been served last Saturday, at twenty minutes before twelve, and considering that the person who had the conduct of the prosecution had his instructions on the 26th December The Clerk: That is not a ground of application. There must be something concerning yourself-of inconvenience or unpreparedness. Defendant: I am coming to that point. Ireceived my summons at twenty minutes before twelve on Saturday. I] wanted to consult a solicitor, but could not do so then, and this morning I was prevented from doing so lest I should be absent from court when the matter would be called upon. It may be necessary for me to take counsel's opinion upon the last order of the court. Therefore I ask an adjournment until the first week in February. The Clerk : Take it fora week. A solicitor will tell you without going to counsel. Mr. Dalton, vaccination inspector, said the order had been made on the 9th December. The Chairman: Have you any objection to the adjournment ? Mr. Dalton : I do not know what he can want it for: The Chairman: We have 'no objection to an adjournment for a week. This was the course ultimately agreed upon. John Hunt, carpenter, was called upon to answer a similar charge. Defendant: If Mr. Edington has advanced a reason for the adjournment of his case, I have still a 318   February 1, 1873. stronger reason for the adjournment of mine. I never got the summons until I came home from work late on Saturday evening. The Clerk: You knew. that an order had eon made upon you. The bench adjourned the case for a week.-WSz?. Helens Newspaper, Jan. 11. At the Petty Sessions, on Monday (before Major Pilkington), John Edington, druggist, appeared to answer a charge of not having vaccinated his child. Defendant put some questions to the vaccination inspector (who prosecuted) touching his knowledge of the subject ; and then admitted, for the sake of argument, that the child had not been vaccinated. He contended, in the first place, that the magistrates had not the power to make an order (such as had been made) in the absence of the child. If it had not been held as not quite courteous to the bench to bring forward decisions of other benches according to his view, he could have shown that in cases where the children were not produced in court, the magistrates had refrained from making orders to vaccinate. Mr. Spencely (the clerk): whether it was produced or not. Defendant: Allow me to proceed. The Chairman: What is done cannot now be revoked. The order has been made, and if you desire to go into legal matters of that kind, you had best put your case into the hands of some legal gentleman. Defendant: I see a book with the clerk, and when the writer of that book (Mx. Fry) was before the House of Commons- Mr. Spencely : Don't go into that matter. The magistrates are here simply to administer the law, and not to go into what Mr. Fry or any other person has written. You have disobeyed the law. Defendant: When you produced that book, 1 thought I had as good a right to refer to it. Mr. Spencely: You ought to have a legal gentleman when you raise points of law. Defendant: I suppose I have a right, as defendant in the action, to state my reasons for not complying. As a proof that the original Act did not confer sufticient power, I can refer you to the 11th clause of the Act ef 1871-called the Vaccination Act Amendment Act-wherein it was prescribed, to settle the doubt, that a penalty might be inflicted by the magistrates for the non-production of the child. I think, therefore, it is clearly shown that, inasmuch as the Act of 1871 was intended to stop up all the loopholes of the Act of 1867, there must have been some difference of opinion on the point. The Chairman: It would be better to have a legal gentleman. Defendant ;: Of course that would be an expensive business. There is another point I wishtoraise. In the Act of 1867, it is laid down that a child must be vaccinated within three months after birth; and in the Act of 1871, which must be read and construed with the-other as one Act, it is ordered that proceed It does not matter ings must be taken within twelve months of the period when the cause of action arose. 'The child is now over two years old, and as no proceedings were taken within twelve months of the time it was three months old, I submit that the present proceedings are not legal. This 18 my conclusion from reading the law. Mr. Spencely : The only question now is whether you have complied with the order or not. If the order were ever so bad, it must stand until it is set aside, and no gentlemen sitting here will reverse the order of a previous Court. The Chairman : If you wish to appeal against the order, you can do so. Defendant: I have not had the child vaccinated, though I have had other children done. It is from no whim or crotchet that I have held out; it is no pleasure to me to be here in the character of a defendant, for breaking the laws of my country; but I have seen so many evils resulting from vaccination -some I can produce in this court-that I do not think I should be fulfilling the duty I owe to my children as their natural guardian, in exposing them to the risks which in some cases attend vaccination. The Chairman: That is to say, you absolutely refuse ? Defendant: I am sorry to say, I do; and if I did not feel so strongly, I would not refuse. I would just say that in some cases magistrates, having no alternative but to inflict penalties, have inflicted nominal ones. But for hearing that it was discourteous to quote decisions of other j wee I would have had some of them here. The Chairman: There may be more or less doubt about the matter, and Inasmuch as 1 have seen a ereat deal of persecution with regard to non-vaccination, my opinion is, that when proceedings are carried to a certain point, they should be dropped. Still, we have to administer the law. In this case I shall inflict a slight fine, and then the matter will rest in other hands. I shall fine ls. and costs, John Hunt, carpenter, was defendant ina similar case, and he submitted to a like penalty.-St. Hedens Newspaper, Jan. 18. Macclesfield. Breaches of the Vaccination Act.-Charles Bottoms was summoned by Mr. Edward Heathcote for not complying with an order made upon him requiring him to have his child vaccinated. On defendant being questioned by the Bench as to his reason for not complying with the order, he said that he had. a strong conscientious objection to vaccination, partly because of what he had observed himself, and partly because of the difference of opinion which existed among medical men as to the utility of vaccination. He distinctly told the Bench that he would not let his child undergo the operation. He was fined 20/- and costs. 1 Robext Jackson was also summoned by Mr. Heathcote for not complying with an order made upon him to have his child vaccinated. On being requested by the magistrates to state his objections to his child undergoing the operation, he said that it ' February 1, 1873.] was contrary to all physical law. He had read the law upon the subject, and had given it his best consideration, and had come to the conclusion not to have the operation performed. He would not comply with the law, unless the Bench would guarantee that no ill consequences would result from the operation. Defendant was also fined 20/- and costs, and both defendants were reminded by the Bench that they were liable to be summoned again and again till their children were vaccinated. -Macelesfield Courier, Dec. 7. ftefusing to Vaccinate his Child.-James Hastings, colour mixer, Furnace Vale, was charged by Mr. Heathcote, relieving officer to the Macclesfield Union, with refusing to allow his child to be vaccinated. Defendant admitted contravening the letter, but not the spirit, of the Act of Parliament. The only aim of the Act, he said, was to prevent smallpox, and he thought he was doing that to the best of his ability, by attending to the health of his children in conformity with natural laws. He had no faith in vaccination, and believed it was not only useless, but hurtful to the constitution of the child. It was very hard that a man should be compelled to allow his child to undergo an operation which he conscientiously believed was doing it an injury. - Mr. Davenport: Do you think it would be a hard case if some farmer, because he entirely demurred to the idea that the cattle plague was infectious, should be permitted to let his cattle go about the country wherever he liked, without any respect to the law ? - Defendant : It would be for the good of the community to prevent that.-Mr. Davenport: So is it for the good of the community that you should allow your child to be vaccinated.-The Clerk: Do you still object to have your child vaccinated ?-Defendant: I do, sir.-The Chairman: And I suppose you are aware you are liable to a penalty for refusing ?- Defendant: I am.- The Clerk: And that that penalty can be repeated time after time, until the child is vaccinated >-The Chairman: I think you are labouring under a mistake, and it is a pity. We had two similar cases from your neighbourhood a short time back, and they urged the same objection as you do.-Defendant: I am very sorry to be placed in the position of opposing the law, but still there are higher laws than the laws of Parliament, and a higher authority even than the Houses of Parliament, and each man must do what he thinks is best. I don't blame any one. Mr. Heathcote, the intelligent officer of the Board of Guardians, has just done his duty. No doubt also the House of Commons (I don't blame it even) passed the Act for the best, and I only hope that it will some day soon see the utility of altering the law a little.-Mr. Davenport : We have no option; we are here to enforce the law. -The Chairman: We have no alternative but to fine you 20/- and costs. We see no reason why you should not conform to the Act, and have your child vaccinated. I wish you to bear in mind that you will be still liable to be called uponto have your child vaccinated ; and if you refuse, the penalty will be repeated until it has been done.-Defendant: All  . 319 right.-The fine was paid. - Macclesfield Courier, Jan, 4, Barnstaple. A Case for the Barnstaple Anti-vaccinators.- Mr. George Baker, auctioneer, appeared to answer the complaint of My. Clement, one of the relieving officers of the Barnstaple Union, for neglecting to have his two children vaccinated.-Mr. Baker admitted the truth of the charge laid against him, and stated that his objection arose from his want of faith in the efficacy of vaccination, for that some years since he had a healthy child, about ten months old, vaccinated, and the fact was, that the child was never well after, and died at the age of four years. He had always entertained the opinion that the child's illness and death were occasioned by the poisonous matter introduced into the system through the process of vaccination, and this opinion was strengthened by that of the medical gentleman who attended the child during its illness.-The Mayor said Mr. Baker had rendered himself liable to a penalty, and the Bench inflicted the small fine of 6s. 'for each case, with the understanding that the payment of the fine would not prevent him from being prosecuted again until the children had 'been vaccinated. Bolton. Refusing to have Children Vaccinated.-At the County Sessions-room, Little Bolton, on Thursday, Peter Brindle was summoned to produce his child, and to show cause why an order should not be made upon him to have it vaccinated.-The defendant, on being asked to show cause why an order should not be made upon him to have his child vaccinated, said he had several objections. The first was-he did not believe that vacgination was a protection against smallpox.-The Magistrates said that was not a question with which they had to deal.-Defendant then said that the 11th section of the Act of Parliament said that if information was not laid within the first twelve months, it should not be laid subsequently.-The Clerk to the Guardians said that meant twelve months from the date of the notice, and the notice was served on the 15th of October of this year.--The Defendant, on being asked for another reason, said his child was at present healthy, and he intended to keep it so, and that if it was vaccinated it would not be healthy after. He believed that smallpox did not do one-tenth of the harm that vaccination did. He had no fear of smallpox,-The Magistrates said that was not a question into which they could go. 'They were there to enforce the law, and not to say whether vaccination was good or bad. -The Defendant replied that the Act said that the magistrates might make an order if they thought fit. --An order was made upon the defendant to have his child vaccinated within fourteen days.-Richard Shepherd, of William-street, had been summoned for a similar offence. Defendant's wife, who appeared, said the child was suffering from whooping-cough, but she did not produce a certificate of postponement. Order made,-Bolton Guardian, Dec. 14. 220 The Anti-Vaccinator. [February 1, 1873. Ene Song of Sindibad. (From Lane's 1,001 Nights, with 3 additional versets in brackets.) How many wretched persons are destitute of ease, and how many are in luxury, reposing in the shade? I find myself afflicted by trouble beyond measure : and strange is my condition, and heavy is my load! Others are in prosperity, and from wretchedness are free, and never, for a single day, have borne a load like mine : Incessantly and amply blest, throughout the course of life, with happiness and grandeur as well as drink and meat. [Yet they are not content with their advantages; and they vaccinate our children, for they love compulsion, and they are in fear. | [And should our children sicken and die, they say- 'Lo! it was not the vaccination:'' and we give them money, and they receive it, and rejoice, and are glad. | [And should our children fall sick afterwards of the / epidemic, they say-'"' Lo, they were not properly vaccinated! '' and they return not the money, for 'their hearts are hard, and their intellects are dull, and their judgment is weak and dim. | All men whom God hath made are in origin alike; and I resemble this man (the vaccinator), and he resembleth me. But otherwise, between us is a difference as great as the difference that we find between wine and vinegar. Vol. m1. 3. Dp. Vaccination and the Poor. Prizes of £15 and £10. The Countess A.de Noailles offers these Prizes for the best, and second best, Essays on "The Hvil Consequences of Impure Vaccine Lymph* to the Poor ; and hence on the Special Injustice of Compulsory Vaccination to the Poor. No Essay to exceed 25 printed pages of 35 lines in length. 'The whole subject to be condensed, and quotations given as briefly as possible. Tables of statistics to be excluded. The relations of vaccination to smallpox not to be discussed. The best and second best Essays to be the property of ''The -Mothers' League,' by which they may be printed either in full or condensed;-if condensed, the authors to be allowed to reprint the Essay ¢n extenso. *By 'Impure Lymph"' is meant lymph which carries or causes other disorders besides the cowpox. The Essays to be sent in to Mrs. R. B. Gibbs, 78, Bolsover Street, Regent's Park, London, W., before March 31, 1878. The Countess A. de Noailles, and a select committee of ''The Mothers' League," will adjudicate the Prizes. Essayists must send in with each essay a sealed envelope, containing the fictitious name affixed to essay, and the real name and address of the writer. Vaccination, to wit. We still, unhappily, live in an age of persecutions, deprivations, excommunications, ejections, for mere differences of theoretical opinion. And one consequence is, that on almost all subjects there is, perhaps, less of defined and independent thought in England than in any country in the world.-Dr. Whewell. --_ Anstyers to Correspondents. Sosa s) We shall be glad if any of our subscribers can send us a copy of No. 2 of this Journal. About 8 copies of that. number are required to make up a complete series of 20 copies, for transmission to Canada. It may be well here to announce, that we have 2,000 copies of each number 'reserved for the purpose of being bound and sold, when the first year's issue is completed. Subscribers will have the first option of taking any number of copies they may require, aiter which the remainder will be advertised for sale to the public. "7." (London)-The last two numbers of the Anti- Vaceinator have been delayed beyond the usual time, in consequence of irregularities at the offices of our Printer. It has been Christmas time. We hope such delay will not occur again. "Rh." (Dewsbury)-The report of the case to which you refer was never sent to this office at all; and we only saw it a few days ago, when attending a meeting of your League at Dewsbury. We may as well, say, that our complaints against Anti-vaccinators throughout the country are many and bitter. The truth is, that prosecutions and important paragraphs appear daily, and everybody thinks that somebody will be sure to forward us a paper, and in the end nobody does it; and then, two months afterwards, a letter is received, saying-''Our League does not think you give sufficient prominence to prosecutions which take place in this district," &c. No paragraph or article on the Vaccination question should appear without our notice being drawn to it. If the journalist is not kept posted up in such matters, he cannot be of that assistance to the movement which he ought to be. This is the first time we have given expression to a complaint, and we trust it will be the last. _ The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... 1s. 6d. Do. 12 a Aodooovtoad 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. --sr Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.8., F.8.S., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. as AU, by F. Pitman, 20, Paver aoe Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 3, Cookridge Street, Leeds. KS All to DS to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. ee [Price One Penny. ges | February 18, 1873. ee Contents. Sani Page MbenViaccmationy Questiony fe. seesclecce.c+s cscwe 321 smallPox Statisties at the Wiede Hospital.... 324 Remarks on Dr. Hermann's Article............ 326 Ourr stron owl Ore he HET. <<. e)e1+ "5 eleieie "16 0101 ey) o1ers116 327 The Bridgwater Gazette and Mr. Roberts' Case.. 327 Hantorial Articles... as 6e<iie ele 0. arorelaierevene:stelerststene 328 PEM Alle Oxa wad aVeveCiiNAELOM" 'era\ele|e eie:c sieleleeleic ore e+ 831 A Mother's Rebuke .......... SOR BOOO S66bd0060 BE! The Vaccinating Case at Needham............ 332 VACEINAION, PLOSECUTIONS(r) aistefelerereiea cio siais oe. 818/600 335 Vaccination and the Poor: Prize Essay ...... 335 The Song of Cold Water ...... SotGonboccacGons 336 The Vaccination Question. By Dr. Josef Hermann, Head Physician, Vienna. (Translated from the Naturarzt, by D.) From Aug. 1858, to the end of 1864, I had the management in the Imperial Wiede Hospital, of the cases of skin disease, in addition to my own specialty of syphilis; until, in consequence of the continual increase of the latter toa daily average of upwards of 3800, the skin diseases were transferred to a separate department. My experience of smallpox during those six years of bedside attendance, has given me the right-or, rather, has imposed on me the duty-of taking an active part in the bold and spirited onslaught on vaccination which is now being carried on in Switzerland, Germany, England, and other countries; and of yielding such assistance as I am able to give, to the unravelling of a question which concerns, in an equal degree, the interests of science and humanity. With the same independence of thought, and the same determination with which I attacked the mercury treatment of syphilis, and with which I shall defend my opinions on these subjects throughout life, I now express my decided conclusions on smallpox and vaccination. I am convinced that vaccination is the greatest mistake and delusion in the science of medicine-a fanciful illusion in the mind of the discoverer; a phenomenal apparition devoid of scientific foundation, and wanting in all the conditions of scientific possibility. Were it practicable to consider the question of vaccination without preconceived views, it would excite our wonder how a process for which no reasonable grounds can be given, could have been persisted in through so many decades. It must be admitted that the vegetative life of vaccination hag been prolonged, not by any real efficacy, not by any visible advantages resulting from its action, but by its apparent harmlessness, the evil consequences not always closely following on the operation; and, in short, by the blind credulity of mankind, and especially of the medical profession. As it has been found impossible to discover in the abstract idea of vaccination any foundation for the practice, an attempt is made to justify, from its pretended effects, its more than doubtful utility. To the original dogma of vaccination, the contemporaries and immediate successors of the discoverer added the following emendations :- 1. Vaccination makes a reduction in the number, severity, and extent of smallpox epidemics, as well as in their mortality. 2. The vaccinated cannot suffer from the true and genuine smallpox, but only from the modified ferm: 322   {February 15, 1873. with them, the attack and course of smallpox is milder, and the mortality considerably lower, than among the unvaccinated. 3. Vaccination protects from smallpox during the whole of life. 4, The statistics of all countries and all ages may be quoted in proof. These dogmatic assertions were brought into full relief by the stamp of infallibility ; and the discoverer of vaccination was publicly rewarded with solid gold, in addition to the crown of immortality. The dogma of infallibility (in the present day of fur greater weight in science than in theology) was closely followed by the footsteps of a terrorism rivallng that of the sainted Inquisition. Every state that laid any claim to be considered civilised, followed the example of England in giving rewards to busy vaccinators. Vaccination was rendered compulsory ; its doubtful benefits were forced upon the people; and the police strictly guarded the doctrine from the attacks of unbelievers. Nevertheless, the Spirit of Knowledge did not sleep ; and although many of Jenner's impetuous opponents were gained over by rewards, there arose a continuous stream of noble-minded practitioners in every land adyerse to vaccination, with arguments that could not be refuted. I pass by the objections which might be made to artificial blood-poisoning by lymph inoculation -to the artificial production of a state of fever which too often ends in a deadly erysipelas, or a pycemia-to the inevitable transference of ulcerating tendencies, and other results. I refrain from anything in the way of intimidation, and will confine myself to a serious examination of the teachings of the vaccination philosophy. Firstly. Is. it true that-vaccination modifies smallpox epidemics, in respect of their frequency, extent, intensity, and mortality ? One example out of many :-In the year 1801 (before vaccination), there died of smallpox in Sweden about 600 per milion. In the years 1802 and 1803, when vaccination was introduced and began to bein vogue, still 600 died. In 1804 the number fell to 450, but rose again to 600 in 1805. In 1806, although vaccination had then become general, 870 out of every million of the inhabitants died; in 1807, 780: and in 1808 as many as 1,000. The statistics of the death-rate from smallpox afterwards fell to 850; but the number was equally low in 1786, before the introduction of vaccination. These figures speak for themselves, as well for the extent as for the intensity of smallpox epidemics. And, doubtless, the experience of other countries is the same -that smallpox epidemics recur _pericdically, and even in those places where not an unvaccinated person is to be found. Wherever smallpox was endemic before the introduction of vaccination -the conditions of the population remaining the same-there it stz// remains endemic, notwithstanding vaccination: in some years more intense, in others milder, and with an equally varying mortality. But, let us suppose that smallpox epidemics have lessened in frequency, severity, and extent, since vaccination,-on what ground can it be asserted that Vaccination brought this change? What logical connection is there between diminution of epidemics and vaccination? And where shall we find an analogy in other epidemics ? All things move in eternal circles, and all epidemics come, increase, decrease, and die out. Not these vaccination theories, which, for absurdity, vainly seek their equal. No! The common sense of mankind ; man's efforts towards rational hygiene ; his acquaintance with the healing powers of natural productions; the improvement in the civilisation of the masses; increased knowledge of the laws of nature; increased acquaintance with the effects of soils; industrial progress; in. short, the raised standard of individual comfort, as well as of national welfare,-these are the agents which ought to rank first in an investigation upon epidemics in general, and smallpox in particular. To take one example :-In the Middle Ages, syphilis was a chastisement from heaven; and ignorant and evil intention, supported even by the faculty, unjustifiably treated it with the mercury-cure. Then came a succession of syphilis epidemics; men maimed with hideous deformities of nose and face, wandering like shadows among the living ; and the terrible effects of the mercury-poisoning were masked by the superstitious belief that they were the natural results of syphilis in its severest form. That we no longer see these sights of the Middle Ages, is due in but slight degree to the piety of mankind. The spirited warfare against the mercury delusion has played its part in the abatement, and at length the time is coming when it will be generally acknowledged that mercury-cure involves the human race in disease: when the mercury laboratories and hospitals shall fall into decay ; when doctors and teachers shall everywhere arise, whose only motives will be science and the purest humanity-then, without doubt, will vanish the undue terror of syphilis, now so much stimulated and increased by the mercurialist's fatal art. 3 What the raised standard of comfort and of health is doing towards the lessening of the small pox, the progress towards a scientific Art of Health is doing towards the lessening of the general mortality. The more scientific physic recognises the indwelling healing powers of the organisation as the principal foundation for its action; the more it frees itself from the erroneous idea that the healing of suffering men liesin the mixtures of the apothecary, the nearer it approaches to the only correct view-that the doctor's art consists in the observation. of the natural course of diseases, in protecting the patient from what is hurtful, and in the most limited use of the simplest means of healing in aid of the body's most innate restorative powers. The more these things are attended to, the more successful will be the result of the doctor's practice ; the fewer will be the diseases of humanity, and the smaller the rate of mortality. February 15, 1873. | Whoever examines the medical treatment of smallpox and the exanthematous diseases, as practised some forty years ago, and as still continued in some quarters; whoever is acquainted with the manner in which the sick-bed was transformed into a veritable hotbed of purulent poison, and probably death and deformity, by the careful exclusion of everything cool-of any ventilation, or of change of clean linen, by keeping the patient in the highest possible temperature on the one hand, and by dosing him with abundant medicines on the cther hand ;whoever notices all this, and compares it with the present rational method of treating smallpox, will seek and find the cause of the decreased mortality in the progress of the scientific art of healing, and certainly not in the unwisdom of vaccination. Secondly. When a man has treated hundreds of cases of smallpox, both under sporadic and epidemic conditions, through many years and atall seasons, he comes to the decided conclusion that vaccination has not the remotest effect on the outbreak, course, or issue of the disease. Vaccinated persons, bearing unmistakable marks of the process on their arms, frequently have confluent smallpox; while, at the same time, unvaccinated people have it in the mildest form. These observations, resting upon the most indubitable truth, appear to have given occasion to the distinction between a genuine anda modified smallpox (varicella)-a distinction evidently made with the view of maintaining at all hazards the dogma to which vaccinators have committed themselves, as to the influence of vaccination in modifying the outbreaks of the epidemic. 'These clinical subtleties, belonging to the category of chimeras, have long since proved to be illusory; in reality, there is no such distinction ; for, even in a mild epidemic of varicella, a careful observer will be able to discover amongst the sufferers fully developed pustules of smallpox, possessing every attribute of the true and genuine pustule. In my opinion, the severity and extent of smallpox outbreaks depends on the season, the dwelling, and the mode of life of those attacked, and especially on the care which is taken of the state of the skin. considered, there is certainly no distinction between the mortality of the vaccinated and that of the unvaccinated; and when periodically, in many epidemics, a greater mortality is statistically announced among unvaccinated children, we must remember that people do not venture to vaccinate weak and sickly children (and there are many of these even among the poorer classes), fearing to make their condition worse. It is the most beautiful decoration of the vaccinator's theory, that he only dares to vaccinate healthy children who possess sufficient powers of resistance to bear the results of vaccination with the smallest possible harm to themselves. The uncertain blessing of vaccination is not allowed to weak and sickly children, who are most endangered by an outbreak of smallpox, and therefore stand most in need of protection! More bitter irony can scarcely be imagined,  . All collateral circumstances duly weighed and | 323 Thirdly. Vaccination pretends to protect from smallpox. If we are to have outbreaks of smallpox every year in large cities, in which, unquestionably, the great majority of the population have, by the operation of compulsory laws, been vaccinated, and if we are to hear every year of smallpox epidemics in country districts,-then the assertion that vaccination is a protection from smallpox, is little less than blasphemy. For example :-In Berlin, in 1870, the attacks of smallpox were 1,337, of whom 1,064 had been vaccinated, 127 re-vaccinated, and only 237 unvaccinated. Out of 6,213 smallpox patients who entered the General Hospital at Vienna, in the twenty years from 1836 to 1856, 5,217 had been vaccinated. Out of 1,330. cases in the Wiede Hospital, from Aug. 1858, to the end of 1864, only twenty were unvaccinated. In England, during the years 1842-65, there died of smallpox 104,213, of whom fully 84 per cent. had been vaccinated. What increases the absurdity of the theory of the protective power of vaccination, is the confession wrung from its adherents by the unanswerable logic of facts-that vaccination does not protect for the whole of life; but guarantees immunity merely for ten, or even only for six years. A strange commentary on Jenner's extolled invention, is the new theory that where vaccination does not suffice, re-vaccination comes in to help it out of the difficulty ; and thus these twins spread themselves over the land. Meanwhile, and in spite of both vaccination and re-vaccination, the smallpox epidemics bloom by their side, just as they did before the protective discovery was made, in all places where the condition of the population has undergone no improvement. Should, indeed, the protective powers of vaccination and re-vaccination continue their decline in arithmetical progression, the term of their influence, now fixed at ten or six years, will gradually be reduced to a cipher, and the institution of vaccination will meet with its long-deserved fate, and sink into oblivion. Fourthly. For the proofs of all the theories respecting the influence of vaccination on smallpox, we are referred to statistics. Now, as to statistics. Let me give a conception of their pliant elasticity to those who court their services. Between statistics and the canonization of a martyr, there is a close resemblance. When all the contemporaries of the statistic-maker and of the martyr shall have reposed for a century beneath the earth, and when no man's memory can furnish even traditionally a counter-proof, then, and not till then, the truth of the statistic is incontestable-then, and not till then, the martyr is fit for canonization! My bitter experience of statistics, in my own special province, must excuse these hard sayings: but, of course, I am here speaking of particular classes of statistics, with no intention of impeaching the value of statistics in general, When, in 1859, I spoke ata meeting of the members of the Faculty, upon the effect of mercury upon the bones, and on the so-called bone- syphilis, there soon appeared in a medical paper-an 324   [February 15, 1878. article, by Prof. Dr. Sigmund, in which he described upwards of 1,500 cases of bone-syphilis, and gave the most minute details of the action of the quicksilver, by which they were treated. Considering that for years I have attended at least as large-and often a larger number-of syphilitic cases in the Wiede Hospital, than Dr. Sigmund could have met with in the General Hospital-and that out of a number of from 1,500 to 2,000 cases annually, I have scarcely seen one in ten of the so-called bone- syphilis-I may be excused for wondering at the astounding number of the cases given by Dr. Sigmund. Another specialist of the metropolis, writing to the daily papers, says-that out of 30,000 Gf I remember rightly) cases of syphilis, he had to treat about 7,000 for stricture, and that he completely cured them. This complication with stricture is certainly a less common form than bone-syphilis. These are two articles of our own time, and they will be made rich capital of by posterity. For my part, I, who shudder as I read them, can only say with the poet- Die Botschaft hér' ich wohl, allein mir fehlt der Glaube.* When, five years ago, a Commission of Inquiry was sitting on the Vaccination Question, with a view to more stringent compulsory measures, the whole question was relieved from this dead weight, and was fortunately brought to an end in a single sitting. The then undiploma'd, but now diploma'd, Prof. Dr. Hebra-to whom, in his own opinion, the history of skin diseases is due-produced collections of statistics of twenty years, during which over 6,000 cases of smallpox had been treated in the General Hospital. From these statistics of his, he pictured the advantages of vaccination, confirmed anew all its dogmatic teachings, and argued not only for its continuance, but also for additional state compulsion, in the shape is From Goethe. Faust, apostrophising the village festival bells, says :-'' Peal out, where weak men are to be found! I hear the message, but want faith.""-Hayward's Translation. of an Act forbidding the attendance of unvaccinated children in the schools. Prof. Dr. Hebra, who, in Commissions of this kind so constantly and willingly assumes the lead, had, by his careful manipulation of statistic material (which, of course, he arranges with infinite precision), and by his pleasing and gentle manners and winning speech, thrown such an air of infallibility over his hospital statistics, that no member ventured to propose any discussion or inquiry into details; and no one dared to raise a doubt as to the policy of compulsion, much less on the utility of the vaccination process. Under such circumstances, I, who enjoyed the high honour of sitting as one of the members, felt compelled to desist from my original design of raising my protest, weak though it might be, against vaccination, and simply contented myself with remarking :-'' Education is a universally acknowledged benefit to mankind; but vaccination has opponents and doubters: it would be unjust to deprive children of the universally acknowledged benefits of education on account of the uncertain benefit of vaccination."' Well, I conquered; my speech was approved ; and the proposal for increased compulsion fell through. No second sitting was held, and the law remains unaltered. These hospital statistics, unless consumed by the tooth of time and the mould of doubt, will supply future ages with material sufficient to induce them to proscribe, once and for ever, not only State compulsion, but vaccination itself, with all the means which science and humanity can furnish them. ~ Lastly. 1 will add a short report from the smallpox department which was under my management from Aug. 1858, to the end of 1864. The statistical arrangement of the report from the sick registers and journals of the hospital, is the careful work of the second medical officer, Dr. A. Peklo. smallPox Statistics at the Wiede Hospital. oe Ccsts ssDiau he ge aN ga Te Te OF WHOM TOTAL AD ToTaL inn NUMBER NUMBER OF : OF oe Vac- Unvyac- c PATIENTS. WERE CURED. Vac-_ | Unvac-| Uncer- ||THOSE WHO citabede cinated. |Uncertam. cinated.| cinated.| tain. DIED. Male |Fem.|Male Fem. Male Fem.||Male|Fem.|Both.||Male|Fem.|Both|| M.| F. | M.| F. | M.| F. || M.| F. |Both 1858. 20. 13 r 1 Sy 15 36 | 23 59|| 86 | 21 57] -| -|-}-|]-} 2 |} -] 2] 2 1859... ...,. 68 | 72 4 1 1 18) 91 1°90 1 94 | 1841.88} -90 1 178) Ete Ball ee eG 1360). 3... 0. 21 | 26 9 W199} BEN662 (48 } T6014] 42 93 -| 3};-]/-}1/ 38] 11617 NBOL as ys. 43 | 30 |= 11°70" S1 U1VS 1°82 | LOSILIS (RCO) | 103 tt a 2i-| 2) 2 L362... a. Po Oe Ns 4193.7 94 12141190 | 404/200 1183 | 3921) O50 2 a AS all WO of ladies T8638. cic 8 142 120 4).- 1 8 8 1150 129 | 279/143 |121 | 264) 7 | 8 |} -}|-}|-|-]}} 7 | 8 J15 1364... <... 54 | 44 4 1 5 ites 63 | 46 109 61 | 46 | 107 ais ohy eat hy cam 23 am - Totals ._ 469 397 | ll 9 |238 |206 ||718 |612 |1330/701 (583 |1284 12 114 |. 1) 1 |.4 |14 1117 429 |46 te 1,330 1,880 . | 1,284 46 46 1,830 February 15, 1873. ]  . 375 Under the term '" uncertain'' are included those patients who do not know whether they have been vaccinated; those in whom the operation had been unsuccessful, or whose arms show no vaccination marks; and, lastly, those of whose vaccination the admission registers contain no trustworthy information. The proportion borne by the number of admissions, and the mortality, to the different seasons of the year, was as follows :- 1858. | 1859. 1860. 1861. 1862. 1863. 1864. MONTH. 3 3 = 2 2 3 3 B/S Ela Ele el al zl e214] 8 <q A <q A <q A 4 A <4 A 4 A of A ANWAR % or! ooo} - | - | 238 | -}] 12) - " } = 164 Poe see Oe l PEBRUARY oswies 5. - | 23 1 6 | - 8 45 2 1 38 1 | 25 }- IVE OEE ware stecexd a6) a CEs teers as V2 3 YF a sy | Di | ee PASE Bika Nila 6'ores'eeke - | - | Is |) - 9};- (i 85. E38 QZ i19 1 NARs crtetiss Sa Sake ws. 6 22 ya i ah Ge a E Ce as 0 a 2155 2 Sore JONB. o0-0% Ac areres - | - | 16 | - 9 Mr ) the es, a 1 of SUES "4 : - | - | 18 The) |p see as Lar f5 2 ula AUQUST....+ Sida 10 Lt is 83)1-|12})-) 30 1; 13)}- i SEPTEMBER ....-. 9;-/|] 8|- 4 |---|] 18 Yt 23>) =") 26 3 pd yh 3 OGLOBER "host. Ss 7\/- | 9 1 Bk Oe So OM eI DO hace dh pe ap NovEMBER........| 15 | - | 18 | -1| 10); - | 33 1-23 2|20|-|] 4] - DECEMBER ....... 18 oh eLG Deere 2) 44) - | 28 1 | 22 | - 2 | - Among the fatal cases were those of seven males and five females, who died of hemorrhagic smallpox : of these, death occurred in two cases after one day's stay in the hospital; in two cases, after two days' stay ; in one case after three days, in another after four days; in two cases, after five days ; and in one case each of 18, 18, 30, and 36 days' stay. Five had been vaccinated, and the rest were registered as uncertain. The causes of death, taken from the register, were- pneumonia, 16; lung disease, 6; Bright's disease, 9; inflammation of the bowels, 2; of the cellular membrane, 2: and 1 each of dropsy, anzemia, gangrened liver, and other diseases. Of the two unvaccinated, the man died of diseased lungs and intestines, after ten days' residence; and the woman of Bright's disease, after 22 days' residence in the hospital. Of the two women who died of cellular membrane, one was delivered of an eight- months' child within eight days after admission ; the child showed no signs of smallpox. Of lasting injury, which, we are traditionally told,' occurs so often, the only case among the 1,330 was that of a scrofulous boy, who became blind of the left eye. It is of peculiar interest to notice, that of these 1,330 smallpox patients, during the seven years, only 34 cases of infection within the hospital are recorded, although, in the first half of this period, smallpox patients, and those suffering from other contagious diseases, lay in the same wards; and during the latter half the smallpox department was open to in-patients generally. Of these 34 cases, three males and two females contracted the disease in 1858; seven females in 1859; five males and two females in 1860; two males and three females in 1861; four females in 1862; four males in 1863 ; and one male and one female in 1864. 'The maladies which followed the smallpox, were-in two cases, scarlatina ; in two cases, measles ; in two cases, ringworm; in two cases, typhus; in one case, hemorrhagic cough ; in one case, rheumatism ; in one case, ulcerated skin; in ten cases, the itch; and in 13 cases, syphilis. Of the whole 34 cases, not one was unvaccinated, and only one died (of anzmia, following ulcerated skin). If it be permitted to draw a few conclusions from the number of 1,330 patients, and on the seven years' duration of the observations, we may remark :- 1. The percentage of mortality, on which so much stress is laid, is a very fluctuating one-being 3°4 per cent. in 1858; 3:2 in 1859; 7 in 1860; 1 in 1861; 2°9 in 1862; 5°5 in 1863; and 1°8 in 1864; the average being 3:4 percent. It is remarkable that in 1860, when (with the exception of the year 1858) the smallest number of patients was admitted, the mortality was the highest; while that of 1862, when smallpox was epidemic, was only 2'9 per cent. And if we take into consideration the heavy number of cases from Oct. 1861, to May 1863 (662), with their 21 deaths, the percentage of mortality was only 3:1. The way in which the friends of vaccination manage to ride their hobby-horse of the immense mortality among the unvaccinated, may be easily gathered from these tables. In the years 1858, 1859, 1860, and 1861, the percentage was nil; while the one death out of the four unvaccinated cases in the years 1862 and 1864, positively furnishes the alarming figure of 25 per cent. We may here see how easily the mind may be drawn into bondage by statistics. Surely, it would be a more prudent course to omit this line of argument; although, undoubtedly, fair opportunity is afforded, by the death of one out of a very small number of unvaccinated, of recording a disproportionately high rate of mortality for the period, Were unvaccination an exclusive, or even a 326   [February 15, 1873. remote, cause of increased mortality, it would be difficult to understand how it was that, during five of these seven years-and out of the eleven unvaccinated patients-not one died, 2. The frvourable results in relation to the small mortality of the smallpox patients, which these statistical data furnish, may be shown to apply equally to the short average duration of the disease ; that of male vaccinated patients being 19°3 days, females 22°6, unvaccinated males 22:2, and females 22'4--the general average being 21:5. The mild consequences, in respect of the short duration of illness (which, but for the solitary case already mentioned, would have been literally nz/), as well as the small mortality, I attribute to the simple and natural treatment, by cold applications to head and brow, internal medicine simple in kind and small in quantity, and especially to strict dietetic regulations, full ventilation and cleanliness of the sick chamber, to baths, and to due nourishment. 3. The much-dreaded contagion pertaining to these diseases, certainly appears in these details in a very small form. When it is considered that only 34 cases of contagion occurred in the hospital in seven years-and notably that when, in 1863, with 404 smallpox cases, in addition to those suffering from other diseases, only four were seized by the contagion-and, further, that not one of the medical attendants, nurses, or servants, took the disease-the danger cannot be so very fearful. Judicious attention to the above simple rules of health exercised a decided influence over this property of smallpox. Vaccination here can have had no possible relationship with freedom from smallpox infection, for all the four cases were of vaccinated people. Remarks on Dr. Hermann's Article. By Dr. Wolbold, Editor of the Naturarzt. Will these arguments and statistical data of Dr. Hermann have-any perceptible influence on the future of Vaccination? For the present, certainly not. Vaccination has still a ten-years' lease of probable duration. She has already outlived all the usual causes of decay in similar inventions, and cunningly defies time, trial, experience, and truth. In a short time syphilisation, on the principle of cowpock vaccination, will have no more than a slight historical value. Vaccination, as a cure for syphilis, soon closed its ephemeral existenee. Vaccination from the lung disease soon vanished. Wherever Vaccination has allowed her pretensions to be investigated on their own merits, or by analogy, she has not been able to stand the ordeal; and yet she lives on, nourished by the mysticism of her henomena, the nursery tale of her wonders, and the eros delusion of her blind adorers. Vaceination and eompulsion, as State institutions, are the work of the Faculty. The State lent the cause its powerful support with the best intentions for the well-being of the people; the State will not take the initiative in revoking the laws, until a public statement from the Faculty lifts the veil, and bears testimony to the fact that vaecination is a delusion. But the medical men on whom this task rests, are at present at endless discord. The great majority pay homage rather to the practice than the theory. They say '"' Vaccination cannot do much harm, so we may as well continue the practice, although it may do little or no good ;" and behind this bulwark they entrench their timid unwillingness to entertain proposals for a reform of the wretched system, by bringing it to the bar of public opinion; not perceiving that such a procedure is the heaviest of all drag-chains on the progress of every science. With this class of doctors may be ranked that portion of the sons of Esculapius who defend ancient traditions and customs, and the * old ways," as though all the doctor's duties were contained in ancient charters, and maintain that freedom of inquiry should be confined to their order ; and also those who, when others dare to think, attack them with threats and anathemas. This is proved by the pliable statistics which appear every year in favour of the wondrous working of vaccine lymph in the Foundling Hospitals, on the one hand; and on the other hand, by the frivolous attacks of vaccinators on their opponents ; as, for example, a high-learnt scientific man proclaims aloud-''that only lay | igmorance and insolence could question the utility of | vaccination to the whole human race ;" not regarding how easily the poisened arrow might be made to rebound and strike himself. In the minority are those physicians who possess at once the conviction and the courage to come forward openly in defence of scientific truth.- When this minority shall enlarge into a majority, when researches into the origin and development of smallpox, as well as into the percentage of vaccinated, shall have thrown full light on the whole subject-especially on the attacks and the mortality-then, without doubt, will a medical interdict be launched against vaccination ; and the State will be happy to be able to free the nation from the yoke of vaccination in all its aspects -intellectual, physical, and material. Bridgwater Board of Guardians.-Mr. Roberts made an application relative to the costs of the vaccination case heard that morning, stating that he had called upon the Registrar (Mr. Tazewell) directly after receiving the summons, asking him not to bring any witnesses to the court, or employ legal assistance, as he intended to plead guilty ; this Mr. Tazewell consented to comply with. He had spoken with him previous to coming into the court, and was informed by him that he had not employed a solicitor. He was greatly surprised to see Mr. Reed there for the purpose of conducting the case; and thought it hard that he should have to pay him a fee for attending. The magistrates referred Mr. Roberts to their Clerk.- Bridgwater Gazette, Jan. 29. - 7 \e\ Febrary 15, 1873. ] a ----  . 327 'Our Strong Forefathers.''* n° Imperial Guard of the old Greek empire was comiosed of selected warriors from the various races enlifed under the imperial flag. In this corps d' élite in he time of Julian was an officer by name Amnanus Marcellinus, who wrote a history of his tim, part of which is still extant. In those days our moérn system of terrorism over people who differ fron us in speculative opinion had not been invented, andjhe imperial guard was' composed of men who diffeed in religion as much as in race. A proof of thisnay be gathered fromthe inscriptions and votive tablés discovered in England, and lately published in th Monumenta Avi Saxonici. Thought was free, evenunder the Neros. The Roman era possessed, inded, the worldwide superstition of the 'evil eye,"' but ve have replaced it by the " strychnine glance," and i illogically confined its terrors to children. I loolin vain for the strychnine effect on the face of the Bbe in prints and pictures of the Madonna and the Ibly Family. Is it a misinterpretation of the nimbu ? Indubitably the original idea involved in the ninbus or circlet of glory was that of effulgence, effusio, emanation, radiation. To eturn to Ammianus and his illustrations of the strugth of the ancestors of western civilization. 'Writiny in a.p. 355, he says :- " Narly all the Gauls are of a lofty stature, fair, and of ruddy complexion, terrible from the sternness of jheir eyes, very quarrelsome, and of great pride ail insolence. A whole troop of: foreigners would at be able to withstand a single Gaul if he called hi wife to his assistance, who 1s usually very strong, ad with blue eyes, especially when swelling her neckand gnashing her teeth, and brandishing her salloy arms of enormous size, she begins to strike blows miigled with kicks, asif they were so many missiles snt from the string of a catapult." Our worthy pgan appends a remark which may be considered ewlanatory. 'They are exceedingly careful of cleanlirss:" and alas! he adds-" Neither in all the county could man or woman, however poor, be seen eithe) dirty or ragged." The mijtary officers of the Ancient Empire were not so igmrant as we choose to imagine. "Our earth," says Ammianus, '"'is but a little point compared with he immensity of things: the starry bodies neither set ror rise, but only appear to do so to our sight on eath." Even sanitary knowledge, hated by doctors, was not altogether wanting: for the same write] says of pestilence-'Some maintain that the airand the water becoming tainted by the smell of corpses and similar things, takes away the healthiness d' a place."' It is diffiult, even now, to improve upon this view. *See "The Sony of Cold Water," on the last page of this \ number. =- The "Bridgwater Gazette" on Mr. Roberts' Case, The following sensible leader appeared in the Gazette of the 29th Jan. last. We ask the Editor one question-Why fine a conscientious objector more than once ? "A Highland cateran had offended his feudal lord, and was sentenced to be hanged. Donald, not relishing the idea, made off to the hills, where he managed to elude the emissaries of his infuriated chief. At intervals he visited his cottage, for the purpose of procuring food. His wife occasionally added thereto a piece of advice less palatable to the hunted outcast. "Just gang and be hanged like a man, and dinna anger the Laird,'' was the stern counsel of the northern dame, and it certainly was a piece of advice very, very hard 1o swallow. To William Henry Roberts, of Bridgwater, the vaccination of his children appears a murderous piece of business, and he has made up his mind that they shall not be vaccinated. Of course, he has been fined. many times, but shows no signs of giving way. On Monday last he was again brought before the magistrates, and besides the usual order, he gota bit of advice- Obey the law like a good and loyal citizen," was the magisterial counsel. Yes; but suppose either of the children thus operated upon were to fall sick and die, would not the father blame himself for his weakness in not acting up to his convictions? If the magistrates have permissive power under the statute, they ought to exercise it in this case. By repeating the fines, they are no nearer the end aimed at. We know that laws are not made to be broken, neither are they so Draconian in their application as this Vaccination Act has been made to appear in the celebrated Bridgwater Vaccination case. It has been argued that after one fine further prosecutions ought not to be instituted; and we certainly think that after the third or fourth time they might be discontinued, and nobody be a penny the worse." s What is a Medical Statistic ? A. statistic, in medicine, is the unsupported statement of an active partisan of a profitable dogma. Being itself a proof, it is understood not to require proof ! Paris During Vaccination and Non-vaccination Pertods._In the first nine months of 1870, out of 7,511 cases of smallpox which were observed in the Paris hospitals, there were 1,643 deaths-making a mortality of 21 per cent. ; wherexs during the same period of 1872, only 172 cases were recerded, but with 36 deaths, giving a mortality of 20 per cent.- Lancet, Nov. 16. Cause and Hffect.-Dr. Grieve says (May, 1872) -" A considerable number of children have come as patients into the Hampstead smallpox Hospital, suffering from both vaccinia and variola." No wonder ! 228   } i py (February 151873. the Anit-Gacemator. EN rallrpeneits At ea ty Cth hare Cie jo ine See rae SIS UTI so It is a source of satisfaction to us to direct the reader's attention to the able article by Dr. Hermann, of Vienna. We are indebted to a correspondent for the very vigorous translation of the paper. Dr. Hermann has had enlarged opportunities of witnessing the effect of vaccination, and of testing the boasted protection it is said to afford. Truth has been his object, and however much his conclusions and arguments are opposed to professional prejudices and manutfactured facts and statistics, he has dispelled the illusion, and his statistics illustrate the principles we have so often advanced-that to be unvaccinated is to be protected, and to be vaccinated is to be impressed with disease conditions which, from that moment, affect the vigour, and conspire to limit the duration, of human life. We commend Dr. Hermann's article to the serious consideration of the seeker after truth. The Anti-vaccinator may take the article and read it as an essay wheresoever he can find an audience. It is both concise and convincing ; and he who can read and reflect upon it without losing his faith in vaccination, must have a judgment and a conscience as impermeable as a clot of molten lead. The statistics which accompany the paper are of the same character as those furnished by +he Editor of this Journal, when the reports of the medical officers of the Leeds Union were investigated ,by him in March and April of last year. 'The smallpox cases and deaths, whether in the Celt, the Teuton, or the Saxon, occur among the vaccinated; and when the unvaccinated are seized, it is to be attributed to the fact that the patient was an unhealthy subject, and therefore ''unfit" for vaccination; and it ig manifestly dishonest to charge the death to non- vaccination , Then, again, Dr. Hermann is right and consistent in entering those anong the ''uncertain," when the patient o1 his admission to the hospital is in such a conation as to render it impossible to ascertain whther he is vaccinated or not. Our medical staisticians charge all those cases to the credt of "unvaccinated," if they have it not in 'heir power to prove, either by inspection or inqury, that the patient has been '' vaccinated." This proceeding is deserving of the severest cemure, as the fabricated statistics have their inflience in keeping up a delusion which is at one the crime and curse of the nation. We hesitat not to say, and we claim the right of speaking with authority on the subject, that our EHiglish hospital statistics, if as honest, would De as damnatory of the practice of vaccinationis are the statistics of Dr. Hermann, collected uring his management of the Imperial Hepital, situate in the suburbs of the capital of the Austrian Empire. The following paragraph has game the round of the papers within the last ten lays :- Letters from Kazan announce that te smallpox , while abating in the West, has byken out along the Volga with redoubled fury, and that the | peasants are "dying like flies." It is afficiently characteristic of the Russians that, in the midst of this unsparing havoc, the Mujiks are actially paying heavy fines, rather than allow either :hemselves or their children to be vaccinated. * The Volga is the most importan river in Russia; it has its rise among the Vddai Hills, and in its course passes through nie goyernments, and after travelling over 2,00 miles of country, empties itself into the Cispian Sea. It is only navigable by large craft rom Nijni- Novgorod to Astrachan, on the slwres of the Caspian Sea; but on its banks there are many large commercial towns, andthe country through its entire length is popuated by the mixed tribes who have settled und@r the sway of the Czar. But who are the Mujiks? 'This question was a puzzle for some time, as mary authors do *From the Manchester Examiner and Tines, of Jan, 23. * February 15, 1573.]  . 329 not refer to them by that title. The term Mujik, Mushik, or Muchouk, is synonymous with the French '" Canaille," or the English '¢Mob." The Mujiks are the Tshornoi norod, in other words, the '' black people," the ' dirty people," in short, the '' great unwashed.' Kohl, in his History of Russia, speaking of them as they appear in the streets of St. Petersburgh, says :"On the haymarket we behold the same mob that in the middle ages, at the sound of the Vetsha Beil, poured into the forum of the mighty republic of Novgorod; the same mob that placed Boris Godunoff on the throne, tore from it the false Demetrius, and exalted the House of Romanoff, which rose to its present astonishing power through the mighty fermentation and development of the Tshornoi norod." * The Mujiks, or the Tshorno: norod, are literally the common people-the poor. And 'these are they who, in the midst of the havoc which the smali-pox is causing m their midst, are yet paying heavy fines, rather than submit to vaccination. Like the Tshornoi norod in England, France, Germany, &c., the poor of the Russian empire have a wholesome hatred of that abominable rite. It is only a few weeks ago that we recorded a riot which occurred in Turkestan, in a district which joins the Russian empire, and where the Khan, doubtless, learnt his severities in that particular line from his Imperial Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias. How sad itis to reflect that the united voices of the poor in all countries are totally disregarded, and that the iniquitous practice of vaccination is euforced with fines and imprisonment, and, under despotic governments, by the keen edge of the sword! It must come to an end soon. We call upon the T'shornoi norod to acquit themselves like men, to be strong and of good courage. The enemy has given way at the most vulnerable point during the last few days,+ and as sure as fate, this accursed rite is doomed-its days are numbered. It is an abomination in the sight of God and man, an * Kohl's Russia, p. 63. + We refer to the fact, that the Lancet and the Medical Times and Gazette of the 8th instant have admitted the transmission of syphilis in vaccination. unclean thing, and belongs to corruption and death. Away with it! But how is it that the Mujiks are suffering so from smallpox ? Is it simply that they are unvaccinated? Certainly not. That has no more to do with it than the fact that they are unbaptized! To any one who is acquainted with their dirty habits, their unsanitary surroundings, and their irregular and unwholesome food, there is no difficulty .n accounting for the stealthy march of the demon of smallpox. For ages back they have been the prey of plagues and pestilences ; and not until the day comes in which they shall conform their habits and lives to the healthy observances of more civilized nations, will the Mujiks-or, as Kohl calls them, ''the black people''-be free from those periodic visitations of smallpox, and other zymotic diseases, before which they are said to die ''like flies." To vaccinate a people hke this, 1s adding fuel to the fire, and introducing the germ life of the very disease, and of others too, which, finding a soil ready prepared for the seed, increase a thousand-fold the intensity and virulence of the epidemic they so much dread. If we could only enter into and interpret the fears of the Mujiks, we should find that their hatred of the Vaccinator is of the same character, and based on the same conclusions, as the Mujiks of this country manifest with regard to that official. We heard nothing of the smallpox either in the West or Hast until long after we were told that the Vaccinator was busy at his work. It isnot the first time that the epidemic has followed the footprints of the State-protected distributor of the smallpox virus ! The report of the prosecution of Mr. Bettle, at Stamford, presents us with a new feature or - two in connection with magisterial opinions and decisions. Mr. Paradise '' informed the defendant that 19 out of 20 of those who died from smallpox last year were unvaccinated," Perhaps Mr. Paradise will tell us where he got his statistics from? We beg to assure the worthy magistrate that there has been no such 'paradise' for the vaccinated in this country. Surely he meant the very reverse of what he ee   [February 15, 1873. said--for that is nearer the truth, The magistrate has, perhaps, had a tete-a-tete with his physician, and in discussing the benefits of vaccination over a cosy glass, the latter informed his host of the statistic, which certainly had an existence-only, it happened to be in his own imagination, and nowhere else. What you advanced, Mr. Paradise, has no existence in fact; it is a mere phantom of the brain-an illusion. If youhad said 6 out of every 10 who died of smallpox last year had been vaccinated, that 3 out of the remaining 4 were unvaccinated because of their '' unfitness" for the operation by reason of their diseased condition from their birth, and that 1 out of 10 was a genuine unvaccinated case, you would have said that which we know to be the truth, and which future statistics will confirm. Again: Mr. Paradise dogmatically gave utterance to the fulsome and nonsensical idea, that '"'so long as a man remains in this country, he must obey the country's laws." England would be a fool's paradise if there were none to resista bad, mischievous, and wickedlaw. Ask us to fall down and worship this image which Jenner "hath set up"? We will not!-take that for an answer; and we defy the law to make us. None more loyal, more law-loving, than we are; but this vaccination is a stupid and an abominable rite-an unnatural, cruel, and superstitious observance. ; Mr. Healy threw out the suggestion to his brother magistrate, that as Mr. Bettle "acted from a conscientious motive, the Bench should inflict the lowest possible fine." That was an idea Mr. Paradise could not see, for the life of him. Mr. Paradise: '' What was the fine before 2" Clerk: '' Ten shillings." Mr. Paradise: '' We cannot go below that." Certainly not, Mr. Paradise. It would never do to cheapen justice in that manner. The whole of the proceedings before the Bench were simply '""shoppy' in the extreme. '' We cannot go below that." Can't you ? but you will have to do so, or else some day a stronger man will tell you to '' begone,"' and give place to others who can better interpret the feelings-nay, the convictions-of the great masses of the people. 4 earnestness, Sie SPORT ASS ARS OS) ie. ENN OEE Mr. Patterson observed, that '"Mr. Bettle's views were utterly at variance with science." If he lad said with science falsely so called, he would have uttered a truth that is daily coming up to the surface, and making itself felt in every direction. We leave the Stamford Bench with feelings of pity-not contempt. It was Lord Bacon who once said-'" In all superstitions, wise men follow fools." | We regret to annoynce the death of our | | friend and contributor, Mr. Geo. Dornbusch, } of Tondon. He died on the 5th inst., from | a severe attack of bronchitis. We cannot Ce LENSE ST TES write a better eulogy, by way of illustrating ! TCS his character, than that which is supplied by an extract from a letter he wrote to the ] STE Editor of this Journal only a few days before he was seized with his last illness. '' He & being dead, yet speaketh." Sr SREP SARE NENT OR Teen Is SWF SIE ASS "We must edtcate the people as well as the Legislature. All progress has been marked by | obstructions, and accompanied by persecutions. | We are happy in our day that we are not like our forefathers, threatened with being placed in the pillory, or burned to death at the stake. <A | great responsibility rests upon us. It would be } a kind of treachery to human progress if we, who know the truth, were to turn unfaithful. We § must impress the people with our thorough We must show them that we do ! not oppose the law out of mere obstinacy, but { that we have really good and valid reasons for | our opposition. It is for persons like ourselves | ; to represent the cause of the poor, who cannot | defend themselves; and it would be the height | of cowardice if we were to take advantage of | flaws in the law, to escape the punishment which § NE APENRC STF 67. ag aL SSN PIA NOTE TDS Ah Lae arma meehs i RET eres Sarai is so fully dealt out to them." - as as February 15, 1873. ]  . oo smallPox and Vaccination.* Montreal, 28th Dec. 1872. To the Editor of the Anti-vaccinator. Sir,-I received your letter of the 30th of last month, with the pamphlets on vaccination. I need not tell you that these documents were received with pleasure. I thank you for them. The friends of non-vaccination are increasing here, especially among the Canadian French ; the -great majority are unfavourable to this practice. Among the Canadian English it is the contrary: however, many of them have doubts as to the efficacy of the vaccine. It is now many years since I began to examine into the effects of vaccination, and to write against all that is unreasonable in that practice, as you will see by the papers I send you; and this year I have the satisfaction of counting on the support of several of my brother practitioners, and of a great many learned men. I need not tell you the sacrifices on my part have not been few, in arriving at this result. You will find herewith a protest against the action of the Office of Health, signed by several physicians, against a practice so barbarous as that of forcing families to have their children vaccinated. Here they will never succeed in bringing this law into operation as it is in England. ft shall make some extracts from your articles, in the interest of the cause, which I shall publish in the French press. I shall do the same with the English press, if I can obtain their concurrence.-I have the honour to be, sir, your obedient servant, M.D ~The following letter has been submitted to the City Council of Montreal, Canada, for their perusal and consideration :- " To the Members of the Health Commnuttee. "Gentlemen, -We feel authorised, on account of the distribution of smallpox certificate forms amongst the physicians, by the sanitary police, to communicate to you some information as to the modus operandi of your Board throughout the city. As it is quite impossible to mention in a mere letter the number of statements against which we protest, allow us to refer at present only to the system, as regularly practised by your public vaccinators, which, though according to your instructions, can hardly meet with your approbation. "According to our own experience, and as the result of our professional studies and observations * From the Montreal Herald, August 7, 1872. |. of all? made during the epidemic which is still raging, we are of opinion that Compulsory Vaccination, as ordered by your Committee, cannot meet the wants of public health or of justice. We hereby protest against this system of compulsory vaccination ; for such practice is pernicious, and incompatible with individual liberty and professional honour.- We are, gentlemen, yours, P. Munro, M.D. A. Dugas, M.D. BB Uraic. Wel). J. Emery Coderre, M.D, Dr. J. A. Crevier, Dr. F. Hamelin, Dr. L. B. Durocher, Dr. Ag. D. Bondy, Dr. D. D. Archambault, Dr. 8. Gauthier, Dr. J.C. Richelieu, Hector Pelletier, M.D. Edin. Dr. J. C. Poitevirs, Romnald Gariepy, M.D. L.A.Dagenais,M.D. L.S8. Quintal, M.D. O. Raymond, M.D. Dr.J.A. Desjardins, Dr. Alfred Villon, A. Penin, M.D: Dr. Jos.S. Lapierre, '*Montreal; 30th July, 1872." A. Mother's Rebuke. The following letter has been sent to us for publication. We are not aware whether the magistrate has had the politeness to reply or not; most probably not. It contains a keen and womanly rebuke :- Copy. | Neeld-terrace, Harrow-road, Jan. 6, 1873. Mr. Mansfield. Sir,-Feeling that your remark, publicly made in the police court, as to Mr. Young being "a cruel father," reflected also on myself as the mother of the child referred to, I cannot refrain from sending you these few lines. As a magistrate I first address you, holding a most important post-that of adjudication of man's laws, subject to the laws of Gop: and therefore your remark (you must acknowledge) was entirely. uncalled-for. You know nothing personally of the man, or the true effects vaccination would produce in his child, and therefore were not competent to judge on that matter. With regard to the fining affair, the laws of men entitled you to mulct the defendant of a penalty ranging from one penny to one pound. 'The law of Gop, as we all know, is to temper justice with mercy ; but that "cruel father" is to meet with no mercy at your hands. Man's laws are to be carried out to the utmost; Gon's entirely ignored. How shall we appear at that other Court, before the Chief Magistrate and Judge What can we expect then, if His justice 332   [February 15, 1873. and majesty should inflict upon us the utmost penalty of the law? But leaving this, I will also address you as a gentleman, who, as a father of a family himself, and possibly a grandfather, must still have a soft place somewhere in his heart, which I hope it may be my good fortune to reach, not only for the sake of my good husband, but of those other less affluent Anti-vaccinators, who, out of the purest love for their offspring, meet repeated fines, loss of time and work (not to mention contumely), without flinching, from a sense of that higher duty which supports them through all. Had you seen, as we have, one beautiful child covered with loathsome sores, which we knew could only have been imparted through vaccination -though the doctor chose a_ particularly healthy-looking child to take the lymph from; had you seen that child languish and die, and felt certain in your own mind that but for vaccination it would still be living; had you then seen another child, following that, taken into the country to be vaccinated, though in direct opposition to the wish of its father; had you seen that dear child with its arm one livid mass of erysipelas, suffering fearfully, and almost at the point of death,-you would not then wonder at that mother vowing, if her child's life was spared, she would never have another tampered with. The child lives; and two since then have been born, fine healthy children, even as the others were, and who remain so; and these are they you have fined us for five times to the utmost extent of your power, because we obey the laws of Gop rather than those of man. In addition-had you seen the number of horrible cases following vaccination that we have in our daily avocation; had you heard mothers denouncing the doctors and the laws which uphold them,- your opinions on the matter would not be quite so decided. It will not do to go either by books or what interested doctors say; only by looking at the thing in a practical way, as seen in everyday life, can we see it in its true aspect. Let those who believe as strongly in vaccination as we do in opposing it, enjoy their opinions, but let them not brand as bigots and fanatics those who, for good and just reasons, see fit to differ from them.-Hoping you will pardon my intrusion on your valuable time, and with all due deference,-believe me, Sir, most neapeetnyy ; Jeanette Young. Whittington Moor.-On the 13th ult. a public meeting of the working men was held in the Assembly-room, Whittington Moor,- Mr. G. Laycock in the chair. Mr. Wm. Hardy moved a resolution condemnatory of the Compulsory Clauses of the Vaccination Act. He stated, that in his opinion it was sheer cowardice to legislate for defenceless children, and leave out the adult population. Had a clause been inserted compelling men to be operated upon, he did not doubt but many a vaccinatory nose would have come in contact with the fists of working men. The Vaccinating Case at Needham. We need offer no apology for transferring to our columns the following letter, written by the Rev. G. Cardew, of Helmingham Rectory, near Ipswich :- To the Editor of the Ipswich Journal. Sir,-In reference to the Vaccinating Case at Needham, in which my name appears, I should feel obliged by your inserting the following in the next. number of your Journal. It is the substance of the letters which I wrote to the vaccinating officer in reply to the official notices which he sent me on the subject of the vaccination of my children. I have added a few explanatory sentences.-I am, Sir, your obedient servant, GG aadeas Helmingham Rectory. My children are five. Three were vaccinated in infancy, to my great regret at the time, and ever since. 'Two have never been vaccinated, and I venture to say never will be, as my wife is now as fully convinced of the mistake of the practice as I have ever been. i regard vaccination, in its practical operation, as a well-intentioned but not innocuous superstition -a kind of fetish or charm, imprinted on the bodies of the nervous and timid, to ward off the demon of smallpox. During the latter part of the last century our country -was afflicted, as often previously, with a severe visitation of smallpox-a disease which I consider (in its remote origin) to be due to profligacy, for which the 18th century was notoriously distinguished. Just as it was beginning to decline, vaccination was invented; and from a very common confusion of ''subsequent'' with '' consequent," the new invention was supposed to have caused the decline. The decisive proof that vaccination had nothing to do with that decline, is found in the periodical breaking out of the disease, in spite of almost universal vaccination for a generation or more. 'When I was a boy, a similar superstition prevailed with regard to bleeding. When I used to accompany my parents or friends at that time in paying morning calls, it was quite common to see on the staircase or window sill a little basin full of blood, from which our friend had just been relieved; it being the settled belief of the doctors of the day that the Almighty had made a mistake in giving us so much blood, and we must at stated periods be relieved of a portion of it. I rejoice to say, that I have lived to see this superstition utterly die out, as well as the kindred one of calomel-dosing; and he must be a bold man who would venture to revive them. In my view, vaccination is a similar mistake of the medical profession, only far more injurious to our bodies; and I venture to predict that our children, if not ourselves, will see the celebration of its obsequies, through as decided a change of opinion on the part of medical men. February 15, 1873. ]  . 333 At present, however, as our ancestors thought that our Creator had given us too much blood, so we of this generation have seemed to think that He has not given us sufficient of the animal ; and therefore we infuse into our system, almost at our very birth, a portion of the blood and of the impurest corruption of a beast, which, blending with our blood and tainting the tissues of our flesh, becomes a part of our animal frame, from which it is never more separated. To this infused unnatural corruption at the present time, as well as to the baneful bleeding and calomel-dosing of the past, may probably (as I think) be due in great measure the increasing -delicacy of our bodily constitution in the present generation, and the almost universal decay (from the age of puberty, if not earlier) of our teeth. It requires but small knowledge of animal physiology to know that the blood of the beast from which the vaccine matter was originally taken, and the blood and impurities of the parents and ancestors of the child from which the matter was secondarily derived, become by vaccination blended with our blood, to defile its purity, and therefore embitter our life: and if (as, indeed, I fully believe) the mind and soul are only too closely connected with the body, and very much influenced by it, does it not of necessity follow that the vicious mental and moral taints and tendencies of the parents and ancestors of the child from whom the matter was obtained, may also be in some degree communicated to us in addition to the bodily corruptions, to place in jeopardy that which is of far higher value than the body P- the mere possibility of which is enough to make every vaccinating parent thoughtful. I have determined, therefore, to keep such of my children as still remain unvaccinated, entirely free and untainted, so far as the corruptions of others are concerned. The ills of their parents they must have; but it is the duty of us all to try and reduce these to a minimum, by careful self-restraint from an early age, and by the avoidance (within doors and without) of that luxury and self-indulgence so fashionable and so prevalent in the present day, of which the increasing use of spirits and tobacco is perhaps one of the most palpable manifestations. A course of self-restraint in the parents- the secret of health and happiness -is, in my opinion, worth ten thousand vaccinations to the children. Having endeavoured, in some measure, to give them this boon-which is further enhanced to them by the circumstance that neither my parents nor myself were ever vaccinated-I am naturally most anxious that it should not be all lost to them by my consenting to their reception of the vaccine corruption, by which their blood may become mixed up with the blood of the scrofulous, the insane, the profligate, the dram-drinker, the inveterate tobacco-smoker- the damaging effects of which will, in a greater or less degree, cling to them through life, and to their children after them. I um not sure that the experience of my own family does not already show this ; for while'my 'two wnvaccinated little dears {aged 'six and three) have never been ill for an hour in their lives, two out of my three vaccinated children have been for years more or less delicate-the eldest (whose vaccination fell very heavily upon him) perhaps permanently so; and we never feel quite at ease about them, but at times very anxious. The proportion of those who get smallpox in England is, I believe, about 1 in 100 of the population. How strange and unreasonable it seems to give the entire hundred an unnatural disease-the disease of a beast-the cowpox, for the chance (for it is only a chance) of saving one from a natural disease-the disease of a man-the smallpox. I would add another consideration, which has powerfully deterred me from giving my consent to the vaccination of my children. I believe implicitly in the infinite wisdom and skill of my Maker; and when I look around on His wonderful works, and on the marvellous organisation of man's body, I feel quite sure He was incapable of failure in its construction: and as He has made every little insect, and even the minutest plant, so perfect in itself, it seems impossible to believe that He should have made man-the highest and noblest of His works on earth-so very imperfectly, as to require, for the healthy preservation of his body, the grafting into it of some of the filthiest corruption of one of the lower orders of animals, to become blended with his blood, and form a part of his system. Had the Creator wished us to have more of the inferior animal element in our animal frames, He would surely have given it us Himself when He made us, and not have left it to be inserted subsequently by a man, in a manner at once so clumsy and nauseating. With regard to my children-of whom I am the natural guardian and protector-the Almighty may send a disease upon them at any time, but man shall not be allowed to give them one. I should indeed regard their vaccinator very much in the light of the manslayer of old, who had slain his neighbour as rs George Cardew. Helmingham Rectory, Jan. 29, 1873. Needham Market. Town Hall, Wednesday, Jan. 29.-Before the Rev. F. Steward (chairman), Rey. J. E. L. Schreiber, and Major Phillipps. A Clergyman Charged with Neglecting to have his Children Vaccinated. -The Rev. George Cardew, of Helmingham, was charged (on the information of Mr. C. G. Hayward, of Needham Market, vaccination officer for the Hundred of Bosmere and Claydon) with neglecting to have his children, Editha and Bertha, born respectively in 1865 and 1869, vaccinated according to the provisions of the Vaccination Act. Mr. Cardew: The first remark I have to make is, that you have unintentionally made a mistake; but I do not mean to take advantage of your mistake, because I make no kind of secret of my most., decided objection to vaccination, which I: consider to be one of the, main causes of the deterioration of the physical strength of our,people at this moment, .. I beg leave to 'say,' the mistake you have made is this-that the child you state was born in March, 1865 (I am sorry to say), 334   February 15, 1873. was vaccinated, to my extreme regret; for I would give £1,000, though I am not very rich, to have not had it vaccinated. [ have another child that has not been vaccinated, that you have overlocked. His name is Harold Woolmer Cardew, and he was born Sept. 1867. The Chairman: Was that child vaccinated since you have been at Helmingham? In the return made to us your child is not returned as being vaccinated by our medical officer. The Defendant: It is a blunder. I can say nothing further. It is a blunder; that is all. The Chairman: There must be a mistake. Would you have any objection to state by whom this child born in 1865 was vaccinated ? The Defendant: It must have been by Dr. Bloomfield. We never had any other doctor. We hate doctors. The Clerk (Mr. F. Hayward): Do you admit the receipt of the notice? The Defendant: Oh, certainly. May I ask a question, please? If the child entered in your books as born in 1865 was vaccinated, may I ask why I was not summoned before ? The Chairman: I think in deference to your position. The Defendant: But surely the law should be carried out with me as toa poorman. I think I ought to have been summoned at the time. JI am not quite certain whether you really can summon me now. Here is an extract from the 7vmes newspaper. The Chairman: I don't think that is any authority with us. : The Defendant: Bat it is a case decided only recently in Worship-street, London. The Chairman: It is merely a private opinion. We must be guided by the Act of Parliament. The Defendant: Quite so. The Chairman: The summons has been on the tapis for the last 12 months and upwards. I hoped you might overcome your prejudice. The Defendant: I have no prejudice. The Chairman: Your feelings, then. Defendant: I have no feelings. This is the conviction of sound judgment. J take not my opinions at secondhand, but I reason them out for myself. The Chairman: You must be quite aware, Mr. Cardew, that if Acts of Parliament are passed, we cannot choose which to obey, and which to disregard. We have only to carry out the Act. The Defendant: You are bound to do in my case as in the poorest case in the county ; but it does not follow that because it is an Act of Parliament now, it is right. T expect it will be very shortly repealed. The Chairman: But so long as that remains an Act of Parliament- The Defendant: You must carry it out. The Chairman: And you must conform to it. The Defendant: But you must not assume that it is right. ee Chairman: It is not like the laws of the Medes and Persians, we know; but so long as it is an Act of Parliament we must bow to it. The Defendant: I am one of the first persons to follow the law. The Chairman: No, it appears to me rather otherwise ; or you would have had your children vaccinated dong ago. ,,., r would; t- 7 sabhedatendant 1; am. prepared,to pay any fine my j;means will ; | admit, and. go to, prion for the rest. of my, ildren, vaccinated, It their health and tr ioc be : 3 ta . ¥ es of ¢@ APPL polluting the spring of; is EF Th, Ay ba whe if (eer) , { i aisde Coy | rh .. favour of it? 1 ness, and polluting their blood for ever through their families, as I shall be able to prove. - __ The Chairman: I think it is a great pity you disseminate these opinions. If the poor follow your example, it will cause a great dea} of unpleasantness. Under the circumstances, we have nothing to ask you, except whether you plead guilty to this offence ? The Defendant: I have committed no offence. The Chairman: Do you refuse to have your children vaccinated ? The Defendant: Most undoubtedly. It would be polluting their blood with contamination from the beasts of the field. And you admit that you hare two children between the ages of three and six years unvaccinated ?-Yes, The Chairman: Then we have no alternative but to conyict. : The Rev. J. H. L. Schreiber: One of your children has been vaccinated ? The Defendant: Yes; and I regret it to this day. We have had to take her from school, because of this wretched poison in her blood. The Chairman: Of course, Mr. Cardew, you are just as well aware of the Act of Parliament as we are. You must see our hands are tied. The wording of the Act is peremptory. I suppose the case will come on again every three months, if the children are not attended to. The Defendant: You can't summon me more than three times. I know all about it. The Chairman: I am rather inclined to differ from you. I think you can be indicted. The Defendant: Well, try it-try it. The Chairman: Well, you have pleaded guilty to - this offence ? The Defendant: I don't know what you mean by pleaded guilty. The Chairman: You have not had your children vaccinated ? The Defendant: Oh, no, no! The Chairman: We must carry out our duty as though you had been a poor man. Defendant: Well, then, fine me. allowed to give some of my reasons. The Rev. J. EH. L. Schreiber: I think you have given them very plainly, indeed. The Defendant: No, I have lots more than that. 1 wrote them out coming here in my carriage. I have nine reasons, each of which is conclusive to my mind. The Chairman: They can have no effect upon us. We have to carry out the law. The Defendant: I am perfectly aware of it. let me be fined. The Clerk: The Magistrates, by Act of Parliament, are bound to make an order. The Chairman: Well, we must make an order. Mr. C. G. Hayward (vaccination officer): And if it is not complied with, you must proceed against him summarily. The Defendant: Is it possible you never had a case of this kind before ? Mr. Hayward: Not in this district. The Defendant: There were 200 of our best physicians and surgeons made a long statement against vaccination, in our public prints in London. There are an enormous number against it now. Take away the doctor's fee of 10/-, and how many will you have in I know the private opinions of many. An fixe, years). time, I prophesy, there will be very little of itteft,.. However, that 1s a matter.of opinion, .. I ought to be Pray " : : : Na Pile SOM fie Yor tir nae Yoyar ved (oeuds brag February 15, 1873. | ; e The Rev. J. E. L. Schreiber : off in a country where vaccination is not enforced. The Magistrates finally made the order for the children to be vaccinated within a fortnight. If the order was not complied with, there would be a penalty to pay. The Defendant: Can't I pay the penalty to-day? What a bother! I begto assure you, gentlemen, that if I did not conscientiously think it was a most serious injury to my children, I should not have given youany trouble. I know a little of animal physiology, and have studied it most intently for the past few years, and I am convinced that vaccination is an injury to my children. The defendant went on to state that there was no taint of vaccination in him, as neither he, nor his father, nor his grandfather, had ever been vaccinated. He had never had a headache since he was born, nor since the same time had he been ill, and had tasted no physic since he was born. He had never tasted strong drink, no beer, wines, or spirits; and had from his childhood restrained himself from any self-indulgence whatsoever: and how could he be expected to mingle the pure blood of his children with that of the dram-drinker, the drunkard, the tobacco-smoker, and. the infected, and with the filth taken from the cow? The Bench might summon him 500 times, but he would never alter his opinion, and would willingly pay any fine rather than his children should be touched. After again asserting his opinion that the act would shortly be repealed, and after taking a polite adieu of the Dench and other gentlemen in the court, the defendast w.th- drew.-The Ipswich Journal, and Suffolk, Norfolk, Hssex, and Cambridgeshire Advertiser, Feb. 1. Vaccination Prosecutions. '* Justices' Justice," the Latest Burlesque Out.- Police Court, Marylebone, 2nd November: before Mr. (not Lord) Mansfield.-Mr. James Stuck, who not long since had been summoned, by direction of the paternal Guardians of Paddington, for neglecting to vaccinate a sick child, and who was then mercifully fined the full penalty and costs, when, had he not been ignorant of-medical law, he might have escaped by producing a certificate of unfitness; and who, by the said "merciful powers,' was again persecuted a second time, for the same child, and again fined the full penalty, because he could not bring it out on a wet, cold day without risking its life-an adjournment for a medical certificate having been appled for and refused-was this day summoned to produce an elder child, Charles Stuck, for neglecting to vaccinate whom he was also fined, two years ago, under precisely similar circumstance. Mr. Baker, barrister, on this occasion appeared for the defence. 'The vaccination officer proved the registration of the birth of the child, and that he had received no certificate of vaccination ; but on cross-examination, he was unable to say that at the time he laid the information, 'he had reason to believe that the child was in his district unvaccinated ''-this being a proceeding under the 31st section of the Act. Mr. Baker submitted that the prosecutor had failed to prove his case, contending that in a. British court of justice a " criminal" 'must be pre-_ of 1867. ei es i = rea ee sige Se ee ems in sr dines AFG +d undawol .usyps seiasG ,pieF Gave L See how the people die'  . rrBPy, , > RPO Sve et of WTR Te essay, and the.real name and_address EPONA he ey SY FO -Secrny faa To Se Din OY. & AS (a hBy- "Impure. Lymph ?'s4s,meant - caases other disordeys besides the eow-pox.. oo sumed innocent until proved guilty. This kind of argument, however, appeared to have no effect whatever on the impartial administrators of the merciful Vaccination Acts, acting #2 loco parentis. The learned counsel, therefore, after protesting in the strongest terms, denouncing it as a monstrous perversion of justice that a dirty fellow, who would swear anything for ls. 6d., should be allowed to persecute respectable and conscientious citizens, acting for the protection of their children to the best of their ability, who were, it seemed, to be assumed guilty without a particle of proof, proceeded, with feelings of great indignation, to demonstrate that his contention was right, by handing in a certificate of the death of that poor sickiy child, Charles Stuck, eighteen months since. Upon which the worthy dispenser of justice with mercy, was compelled, ''against the stomach of his sense,' to dismiss the summons, showing the reluctance with which he did' do by refusing to allow costs.-Cosmopolitan. Bridgwater.-William WUHenry Roberts was charged with refusing to have two of his children, Fanny and Lizzie Roberts, vaccinated. The defendant pleaded guilty. Mr. Reed appeared for the prosecution. 'The magistrates made an order for the vaccination of the children Fanny and- Lizzie Roberts within 14 days; costs of the application to be borne by defendant.- Bridgwater Gazette, Jan. 29. Vaccination and the Poor. Prizes of £15 and £10. The Countess A. de Noailles offers these Prizes for - the best, and second best, Essays on "The Evil Consequences of Impure Vaccine Lymph* to the Poor ; and hence on the Special Injustice of Compulsory Vaccination to the Poor. No Essay to exceed 25 printed pages of 35 lines in length. 'The whole subject to be condensed, and quotations given as briefly as possible. Tables of statistics to be excluded. Wherelations of vaccination to smallpox not to be discussed. The best and second best Essays to be the property of 'The Mothers' League,' by which they may be printed either in full or condensed;-1if. condensed, the authors to be allowed to reprint the Essay im extenso. The Essays to be sent in to Mrs. R. B. Gibbs, 78, Bolsover Street, Regent's Park, London, W., before March 31, 18738. The Countess A. de Noailles, and a select committee of '"' The Mothers' League," will adjudicate the Prizes. sue net oats Essayists must send in with each essay a sealed envelope, contain" the* fictitious' nahie 'affixed to ees a ee soe HATERS AL Choir = deobiq- tioG so rad oe deo. mt lymph, which garvies ox Sa ay} 'eeelunstt ons Oly. Tootk veot gf aco & 336 The Song of Cold Water. From the Naturavrst,* Water-hater! water-hater! Let us now thy creed assail ; Gop the Lorp created water,- Who makes coffee, wine, and ale? Can, then, what is made by creature Better than Gop's works avail ? Drink pure water, healthy water, If from pain and grief you'd fly; Drink pure water, freshest water, If sweet health you would enjoy ; Clear, and cold, and sparkling water, From Gop's spring without alloy. Wait for spoon ?-no! seize the treasure, Tis life's beverage so bright ; Drink it with o'erflowing measure, Drink by day, and drink by night ; Drink in evening's quiet leisure, Drink when breaks the morning I'ght. Wash yourselves in coldest water, Old and voung, and man and wife ; So shall all rise clean and cleaner Every morning of their life: Shrink not from the flowing stream, With life, and health, and beauty rife. Use yourselves to coldest bathing, Man and wife, and young and old; Strong in health, it shall not hurt you, Try it with a spirit bold: : Bathe, then, where it coolest welleth, Out in mountain, wood, and wold. Thus they bathed, our strong forefathers, In Arminius' epic time, When Rome's eagles vainly battered 'Gainst Germania's youthful prime, And a Cesar's empire, shattered, Bloomed again in Northern clime. Far too long ago this custom Vanished from the German race, * Dr. Wolbold, the Editor of the Satururzt, adds the following note: -''In the year 1865 I gave a biographical memoir of Dr. Oertel, Professor at Ansbach, on the occasion of the centenary of his birthday. He was a skilful hydropath of the first excellence, and died on the 16th of May, 1850. I now present to the readers of the Maturarzt a 'Poetical Greeting in Praise of Water,'' written by his eldest son, Charles Oertel, a youthful-hearted old man of more than 70 years, who has both theoretically and practically walked in his father's footsteps, and is at present living at Wurzburg. I hope it may meet with their indulgent approbation. The Anti-Vaccinator. [February 15, 1873. And with it the mighty sinews, And the freshness of the face: Chills us every wind that blows In winter's cold and dark embrace. True it is that thousand doctors Reign supreme o'er great and small, Manfully they hold stout battle With the pains that us enthral ; Yet it seems to me that knowledge Without water soon would fall. Now, see how the doctors gather, Multiplying by our pain; When with one disease they grapple, Oft they sow the seeds of ten; All their knowledge seems directed To effeminate our men. Is there nothing, then, shall save us From the universal pain ? Is this world ruled by the demons? Lies its Maker 'mongst their slain ? Can the curse not be evaded Which life's erring path doth stain ? No !--He lives, the Wise Creator, Nothing has He made in vain ; Once o'er water moved His Spirit, Still rr hovers in the rain: Water had 1Ts earliest blessing For man's use, not for his bane. No room now for hesitation, Sternly check temptation bold, Swear to hate the baleful goblet, Drink pure water, bathe in cold ; Earth its youth shall then recover, Germans shall be those of old! Translated by D. Rochford Petty Sessions, Oct. 17.- Herbert Merryfield, of Hockley, dealer; Henry Baldwin, Rayleigh, builder; Edmund Key, of South Benfleet, labourer; and Jas. Green, of Eastwood, labourer, were summoned by Mr. Gregson, clerk to the Guardians of the Rochford Union, for neglecting to have their children vaccinated. Merryfield was fined 1s., costs 8s,; and the other three cases were adjourned to the 31st inst.-Oct. 31.-William Burrells, labourer, Foulness, was fined 6d. and 12s. costs, or 14 days' imprisonment, with hard labour, for refusing to vaccinate his child. _ The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... lis nGa). Do. 12 SB icuarcposncieiets 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, (c) addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. = oor -- pr -$-$- Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . -_-<-- - Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.S.S., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. KF All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 22, New Series. epee 1, 1873. es One as Contents, Page Vaccination no Protection against smallPox .. 337 WeCcial) Ex NMlig seoooces eco BOGGOGOOOC OOS DOME 340 Cause and Effect: Scarlatina after smallPox .. 341 AGG EN IS in Gb AN Copp ee OOMOM OOS SOOO COnOOL 342 Is a Communicated Disease Condition, or a Naturally Healthy Condition of Body, the Best and Safest Protection against smallPox ? 342 Mem SL USO WA CCIMN ATT OI), a0 s0 isisie sro eelssis0)s "6 342 smallPox Statistics of Sweden....... ajdbiodoeoK 343 AG ORI ATOLCIS. (ya rcce siete cisichs)s/0,0.0 ere eyeve's EGEEC 6006 844 Two Protests against State Vaccination........ 346 ESWEUVFAC CIM AGTOIM SAWCE e.cc.veuckeves sro) <feve) <0 oie cele:si0,0 sjareve 347 Anti-Vaccination Meeting at Dewsbury........ 347 Vaccination Prosecutions:-Stamford, Grays, Stubbin, Gainsbro'", Marylebone ............ 349 Vaccination no Protection against smallPox. By J. Emery Coderre, M.D. (Continued from page 3807.) In the first part of this essay on vaccination, I showed that the vaccine virus was of the same nature as the variolous virus; and I have proved by numerous quotations that variola and vaccine are two identical diseases, of inflammatory and gangrenous nature, both contagious and epidemic. an In the second part we have seen that the law of compulsory vaccination in England is far from dealing out justice-especially to the poorer classes ; that it meets with strong opposition on the part of an important portion of society, among which are several physicians who not only are opposed to the . law, but condemn the practice of vaccination as injurious, and affording no protection from smallpox , pe in this third part, I am going a speak of the accidents, or mischievous results, which have arisen from vaccination among us, without in the slightest degree protecting us from smallpox. I think I have incontrovertibly proved that vaccination offers no guarantee as a preservative against smallpox ; for the majority of the smallpox patients have been vaccinated. Nevertheless, the practice is continued of poisoning feeble and delicate persons by the introduction of a purulent and gangrenous virus into a constitution too feeble to resist the effects of that poison. After the facts which have presented, and aie every day presenting, themselves to our observ.ution, we cannot believe in the preservative action of vaccine. In tracing vaccine back to its source, we find, as I have already said, that this disease is identical with variola ;-the two viri belong to the contagious class (Bousquet); an inflammatory and gangrenous disease (Hertwig, of Berlin). The nature of the two poisons is the same -inflammatory and gangrenous products. Though this question has been before the public for more than eighty years, it is scarcely more advanced than when it was first discussed. Epidemics recur from time to time, and as people begin to fear contracting the malady, vaccination is practised on a larger scale than usual, the disease increases, and epidemics spread-as we have seen among ourselves. A short time ago we read in the Minerve :-smallpox . We regret to announce that this epidemic becomes more and mck threatening ; last week there were 40 fatal cases." (March 12.) And at New York, at the beginning of the epidemic, notwithstanding tho activity of the Office of Health, small 338 The Anti-Vaceinator and {March 1, 1873. pox increased. The following is copied from a telegraphic dispatch, dated Nov. 27, 1871 :-'" Fifty cases of smallpox were reported last week, which is an increase of 14 on the preceding week. 'The Offices of Health, recently organised, are actively occupied in vaccinating." (Pays, Nov. 28, 1871.) Well, did they succeed by vaccinating in arresting the course of the smallpox epidemics which have followed each other, and spread over the different countries of Hurope, America, and elsewhere, from Jenner's time to our own? No! smallpox has spread like all epidemic diseases ; it continues, and will continue, its ravages. Sanitary and hygienic laws are the means which should be adopted to prevent the malady from being so destructive. smallpox epidemics, after lasting a certain time, eradually disappear, and are frequently succeeded by other epidemic diseases, such as measles, scarlatina, hooping cough, &c. The different smallpox epidemics that we have had in England and here since 1854, give weight to the opinion that. vaccine propagates variola. I am far from opposing that idea; on the contrary, I think it well founded; for if it be admitted that vaccine and variola are two identical maladies, it is rational to conclude that the vaccine virus may, in epidemic times, develop the smallpox fever and engender that disease, as has happened here with many persons. = The following are some fresh notes on the bad results of vaccination :Ist. M. U. G-'s child died in consequence of vaccination. 2nd, M. T- took smallpox the third day after having been vaccinated, and died on the seventh. 3rd. M. C-, after vaccination, was seized with inflammatory erysipelas, and died a few days after. 4th. Demoiselle C- took smallpox a few days after vaccination. 5th. Four children were vaccinated by Dr. B- with the same matter; two were seized with inflammatory erysipelas of the arm, one slightly, the other seriously ; the third had a gangrenous ulcer on the arm; and on the fourth the vaccinal pustule went regularly through its different phases. M. B-'s child, vaccinated with the same matter, had a gangrenous sore on the arm, with a general eruption over the body: cases of this kind are numerous. 6th. M. and Mme. C-, vaccinated; suffered from inflammatory erysipelas of the arm. wth. M. N. D-s child, vaccinated; syphilitic ulcer. 8th. Demoiselle A-, vaccinated by Dr. A-; suffered from an ulcer in the arm, which was not cured for five or six years after the inoculation of the virus, despite the various treatments to which she was subjected. 9th. M. C-'s son, a few days after vaccination took smallpox and died. 10th. A case of hydrophobia in consequence of vaccination. llth. Dr. C-, of the Sault-au-Recollet, reports some cases of the bad effects of vaccination, with one death. He says-"In the month of April I procured some vaccine from a friend of mine, a physician of Montreal. He said to me-'I can guarantee itis good; it was taken from a perfectly healthy child.' I must mention that at this period scarlatina was prevalent in Montreal, while at the Sault-au-Recollet there had not been a single case. With this vaccine I vaccinated four children. There remained sufficient for several others. I shall call the first child A, the second B, the third C, and the fourth D. The first was a few months old; the others were about a year, more or less. '"'A few days after, I was called in to see the child B. He had intense fever, and rejected all that they tried to get him to swallow. He had arash, and | swelling of the glands and pharynx, but no rash on the skin. The next day I saw him again, and the scarlet eruption had made its appearance. There was then no longer any doubt as to the nature of the malady. For a long time I entertained grave apprehensions as to the final issue, but eventually it recovered. "The parents accused the vaccine-which in other cases had been quite successful-of having imparted the scarlatina, and introduced it into the family; for all the other children who had not had this disease before were attacked by it. "The ninth day after the date of the operation, I was called in to see the child A, and the mother addressed me in these words :-'The vaccine has taken well, but it was bad; it has given him some other disease. Look how the stomach is swollen, and his throat is sore as well.' In fact he had dropsy, with pulmonary oppression and pharynxal quinsy. There was no redness of the skin; but the parents told me that he had had a rash, and described its appearance to me, I applied remedies; but the child died. I may remark that this child lived at a great distance from the other. Frightened at the result of the vaccination in these two cases, I hastened to find out something about the children C and D. The child C had had erysipelas on the arm, which healed after much suppuration. With the child D the vaccine had been successful, and run its ordinary course." Recently several young girls belonging to a school were vaccinated, and some of them took smallpox, of which two died-one at the Hotel Dieu, and the other at the General Hospital (English Hospital). I will state another fact, which may bear on vaccination and re-vaccination in a different manner from the preceding. At the Montreal College, where pupils, professors, and employés number about 400, there has not been a single case of smallpox up to the present time (April, 1872). gentlemen of St. Sulpice say, that they had neither vaccinated nor permitted vaccine to be introduced . when the epidemic broke out, I heard one of the _ ' 4 March 1, 1873.)  . 399 Dr. Kennedy, of Roxburg, Mass., says-" I have so often seen bad effects resulting from vaccination, that I am far from considering its action beneficial to mankind. JI speak from experience, having attended a great number of patients who have suffered for weeks, months, and years, from humoral maladies in consequence of vaccination."' TI now pass on to some fresh notes, bearing directly on smallpox :- Ist. Three of M. L-'s children; one 9 years old, one 4, and the third aged 7 months; the first two vaccinated, the last' unvaccinated ; malignant smallpox; all three died. (I would ask you to note, that the smallpox had been contracted in the first instance by the vaccinated children.) 2nd. Mile. L. D-, 8 years old, vaccinated ; confluent smallpox ; cured. 3rd. Two of M. L-'s children, vaccinated by Dr. D-; confluent smallpox ; cured. 4th. Four children, aged 6, 44, 24, and 6 months; malignant smallpox ; three died, and the fourth is not well yet. No information as to vaccination. 5th. Four vaccinated children ; malignant smallpox ; died. 6th. M. B-'s child, 27 months old, vaccinated by Dr. R- last December ; malignant smallpox ; died in February. 7th. M. P.S. D-'s child, a girl of 8, vaccinated ; malignant smallpox; cured. 8th. M. F. P-'s three children, unvaccinated ; malignant smallpox ; one died. 9th. I. S-'s child, 6 years old, vaccinated ; malignant smallpox ; died. 10th. M. B. P-'s child, 7 years old, vaccinated ; malignant smallpox ; cured. llth. M. L's child, 7 or 8 years old, unvaccinated ; mild smallpox. 12th. M. G. C-'s two children, aged 3 and 1, unvaccinated ; one had malignant, the other slight, smallpox ; both cured. 13th. B. D-'s two sons, aged 10 and 13, vaccination ted ; one had malignant smallpox, the other slight ; both cured. 14th. M.J.B. G-'s daughter, aged 4, vaccinated ; malignant smallpox ; cured, 15th. Four children, three of them vaccinated ; malignant smallpox ; all four died. 16th. A. R-, vaccinated; bad smallpox ; cured. 17th. A. R-'s aunt, after having been with her nephew, returned to her family at St. H---, communicated the smallpox to a young girl, A ; 7 years old, vaccinated, cured; and to a little boy, L--, 4 years old, vaccinated ; died. 18th. The woman, B-, vaccinated, washed A. R-'s linen, took smallpox, and died. 19th. Nine children of the T- family, vaccinated ; malignant smallpox; six died, two of them of measles following upon smallpox. I was furnished with this information by a member of the T- family. 20th. Mrs. L. L-, vaccinated, contracted smallpox the second time in February last; cured. Three of her children, unvaccinated, took malignant smallpox ; one died, two cured. 21st. '[wo of L. P-'s children, a boy of 4 and a girl of 38, vaccinated; malignant smallpox; the little girl died. LL. P- had another child, 15 or 18 months old, unvaccinated, whom he allowed to le in the bed with one of the sick children, and it did not take the disease. 22nd. Dile. A-, aged 14, vaccinated, caught the smallpox the second time last January; died. 23rd. M. L-, a priest, vaccinated, contracted smallpox in March last; -had it in the confluent form, and is now convalescent. 24th. Daughter of M. EH. B-, 13 months old, See malignant smallpox, died on the 19th ay. 25th. M. J. B. H-'s three children, vaccinated last January, have since taken smallpox; the eldest, aged 7, died : the two others are convalescent. ° 26th. M. Z. C-'s two children, a boy of 4 and a girl of 2%, unvaccinated; the former had mild Saale i and the second malignant small - pox ; ied. 27th. Six of M. M. C-'s children, unvaccinated ; some had confluent smallpox, others discrete smallpox ; one died: 28th. M.H. A-, aged 21, vaccinated; malignant smallpox; died. 29th. .M.C. M. J. B-, malignant smallpox; died. 30th. Mme. A. T-'s daughter, aged 12, vaccinated, malignant smallpox ; still under treatment. 3ist. M. C. M-'s child, aged 10, unvaccinated ; malignant smallpox; died. 32nd. M. C. V. B-'s daughter, aged 4, vaccinated; malignant smallpox; still under treatment. 33rd. Two of J. P. C-'s children, unvaccinated ; still under treatment. 34th. M. L. B-'s child, 4 or 5 years old, vaccinated ; malignant smallpox, with gangrene of the mucous membranes of the mouth, gums, and cheek; still under treatment. ' 30th. M. S--, a man of education, furnished me with the following information, which bears importantly on vaccination. It is as follows:-* Several years ago my children were vaccinated ; my family consisting of nine. My impression on the subject of vaccination was, that if my children should take smallpox they would have it very slightly. Judge of my surprise, when some of them contracted the disease, and two died of it; these two were the last vaccinated, and all of them suffered from the worst description of confluent smallpox." aged 18, unvaccinated ; I will now sum up. Out of 81 cases of smallpox, 55 had been vaccinated, 26 were unvaccinated; out of these 81 cases, 35 died, 24 of whom were vaccinated and 11 unvaccinated. By adding to these figures those with which M. L supplied me, extracted from the registers of burials in the Catholic cemetery, from the 17th of January to the 21st February, 1872, we shall see that of 160 cases of smallpox, 98 349 or 99 were vaccinated. Those cases in which information had been incomplete, are counted among the unvaccinated, and among these also are a few vaccinated, as may be proved despite the certificates of certain vaccinators. : The majority of smallpox cases, at least 2 to 1, had been vaccinated. The result of my observations, and of those notes which have been supplied to me by brother practitioners and other persons, is the condemnation of vaccination. If each member of the profession, and particularly of the Medical Society, were attentively to observe the progress of smallpox, and the effects of the inoculation of the vaccine virus, and were each to communicate the result of his observations, we should by that means arrive at sounder and more salutary conclusions on this subject, free from prejudice and individual interest. I have done. If I raise my protest, as I do, against the practice of vaccination, it is not without reflecting upon the responsibility I assume, and on the consequences which may flow from it. The position I have taken in opposition to my colleagues, my brother practitioners, and the public especially, proceeds from conviction; and it was not till I had observed the evil effects of vaccination, and had collected much information in my practice and in the hospitals on the progress of smallpox, which attacks vaccinated and unvaccinated without distinction, that I could convince myself that the majority of smallpox patients had been vaccinated, and that the unvaccinated suffer in no greater degree from it. Vaccinal Syphilis.* The Medical Times and Gazette of Feb. 1, has the following leader on the above subject. We publish it in eatenso:- "The important subject of vaccinal syphilis came again before the Medico - Chirurgical Society on Tuesday evening, when a paper was read by Mr. Hutchinson, detailing two new cases. He also drew some general deductions from the facts as already ascertained, which, together with others elicited in the course of the discussion that followed, constitute the most important practical suggestions yet made with * The paper read by Mr. Jos. Hutchinson is to be found in both the Medical Times and Gazette and the Lancet for Feb. 1. 'We shall not publish the paper, as we think the above article gives afair resumé of the facts and arguments used on the occasion.-Hd. A. V.   [March 1, 1873. -- regard to this most unsatisfactory subject. That syphilis should be communicated by vaccination was, though admitted abroad, long disputed in this country. Since the publication of Mr. Hutchinson's paper, and a communication by Mr. Thomas Smith to the Clinical Society, where the patient was exhibited, it can no longer be so. We have now emerged from the region of doubt, to one of belief in the possibihty of such an untoward occurrence ; and, in accordance with the practical turn which most professional discussions sooner or later take in this country, we have promptly begun to seek a remedy for the possible evil. The patients whose cases Mr. Hutchinson narrated, came to him seeking relief for other maladies. One, aman of middle age, came for iritis, and was found to be covered with a true syphilitic rash, and to have open vaccination wounds which had assumed the character of chancres. He had been vaccinated from a puny child, which, when seen by Mr. Hutchinson, had no other indication of syphilis than a somewhat flattened nose. A month after vaccination the sores formed on the arm, and in due course the secondary rash appeared. None of the others vaccinated from the same child suffered. This man soon got well, under appropriate treatment. The second case was that of a lady over 40, who consulted Mr. Hutchinson for an urethral growth. It was seen that she was covered with the stains of a syphilitic eruption, and on inquiry it was found that this had followed on vaccination ; that she had suffered from iritis, and had gradually recovered under the use of anti-syphilitic remedies. The child from which she was vaccinated had condylomata round the anus when teething, as had a child born of the same parents previously, though their firstborn was healthy. in such a sketch as this it would be impossible to go into the minute details necessary to bring out clearly the facts which established these cases as instances of vaccinal syphilis: we must refer our readers to the original paper, published elsewhere in our columns. Suffice 16 to say, that Mr. Hutchinson was able, so far as we could understand, to bring the truth of his facts, as well as of his theories, home to the minds of those present. Difficulties were raised, but upon the whole fairly answered. Thus, the question of immunity, as experienced by some, seemed not easy to get over; but it was elicited that where several individuals were vaccinated from the same child, those who suffered were the last, or nearly so, who received lymph from the arm of the infected child. March 1, 1873. ] [ . Heretofore, as we have said, it has not been admitted that, if due care be taken, syphilitic | infection by vaccination is possible. specially has this been urged by the Crown officers when asked to encourage heifer vaccination. 'I'he facts now before the public will tend to rouse them, if they have not been roused already, from the false security into which they have been lulled. And, as was stated at the meeting, it is plain that our compulsory vaccination laws cannot be maintained unmodified. It is true that the number of instances yet before us is small, but we also well know the manifold inducements to keep these secret. In point of fact, nearly all the cases reported have crept out accidentally; and if a full and searching investigation were made-could we for the time being create a Medical Palace of Truth-we doubt not but that many more facts might be acquired. Nevertheless, what we do know suffices to warn us of the possibility of the dreadful contamination, and warns us to provide accordingly. In the meantime, it is generally agreed that the vaccine lymph even of a syphilitic child, if of the reality of the danger. perfectly pure, cannot communicate syphilis from one individual to another. This may be true, or it may not; at all events, it is the current belief, and facts seem to uphold it. On the other hand, the impression is, that if blood corpuscles, red or white, or other formed material, enter into the fluid used for vaccination tion, there is a risk of syphilitic contagion. It has been said that the infected individuals have been the last to be vaccinated from the diseased child ; and as it is the custom with some, either to scrape or squeeze the vaccine vesicle with the lancet, so as to procure the greatest possible quantity of vaccinating fluid, it would seem as if the corpuscles procurable from the walls of the vesicles were a possible means of contamination. Whether this be so or not, it is plain that every possible means must be adopted for preventing the contamination of the vaccine liquid with solid particles other than those itself contains. But another very serious question arises. In the instance of the lady seen by Mr. Hutchinson, there was a desire to obtain vaccination direct from the heifer, but no fluid could be obtained, The child selected was in many respects the picture of health at the time of vaccination, though subsequently condylomata were developed round its anus. As the law stands, infants must be vaccinated before they are three months old; but, apart from snuffles, it is quite possible there may be no manifestation of constitutional syphilis till they | 341 are six or eight months old, or even it may be later. It is not fair to subject healthy infants to the risk of vaccination from others, which, though healthy at the time, may subsequently show signs of inherited taint. Itis quite plain from past experience, that heifer vaccination cannot be kept up, save in times of public excitement, except Government intervene; and it is not fair to subject people's children to risks such as those which vaccination-syphilis implies, with no alternative but to go to prison. The risk admitted, the option must follow, or the law will fall to the ground. Moreover, the risk admitted, much greater care eyen in ordinary cases is necessitated; and the practice of vaccinating many children from one, must be held, at all events, open to suspicion. And that the risk does exist, all, we think, must now admit. In this matter the thanks, not only of the profession, but of the public, are due to Mr. Hutchinson, for the pains he has taken in the execution of his self-imposed and ungrateful task. Had his cases been less convincing, had they been brought forward in a less perfect manner, he would have failed to convince us He himself would have been looked upon as a raiser of false alarms, and the public would have again been lulled into a dangerous feeling of security. Much yet remains to be done before the matter is finally settled, and the mode of possible infection established; but forewarned, we are forearmed; and, recognising the possibility of the danger, we are in a positicn to provide against it. Knowledge does not bring panic, but confidence." Cause and Effect.-Scarlatina after smallpox. The medical officer of Ashby-de-la-Zouch says, that in 1872 smallpox has been epidemic, and he approves 'the readiness of parents to have their children yaccinated, and also of adults to submit to re-vaccination." 'The number of deaths" (he adds) "from scarlatina during the year has been excessive." Significant! Scarlatina differs but slightly from smallpox. Sir Henry Holland says (Medical Notes, page 405, 2nd edit.) that, variation in the quantity or concentration of any" given virus, determines its action on the body, Scarlatina (he says) illustrates this principle. " Looking at the disorders, among children especially, during the seasons when this disease prevails as an epidemic, we find many which | strongly warrant the suspicion of their being derived from the same virus." 'he In accordance with these views it 1s probable that vaccination may be the cause of both scarlatina and smallpox at Ashby,   {March 1, 1873. Judicial Blindness. At Lambeth, George Nicholson, Tindal-street, Camberwell, was summoned at the instance of the parochial authorities of St. Gules', Camberwell, for refusing to have his infant, Emily Annie, born on the 23rd of December last, vaccinated within thrée months of the birth. Mr. Stevens, attending for the parish, stated that the defendant had repeatedly refused to have his child vaccinated,and the Poor Law Guardians directed that the law should be enforced. The defendant, premising that he was not one of the Peculiar People, said that one of his children, vaccinated by the public vaccinator, soon afterwards took the smallpox, lost his sight, and died. Believing, as he did, that his death was through vaccination, he had objected, and still objected, to vaccination. -Mr. Chance remarked that it was proved by experiment that vaccination either prevented smallpox, or diminished its virulence. He inflicted a penalty of 10s. and costs." Times, Dec, 14. So a magistrate with the fact before him of the death of a vaccinated child from smallpox, believes that the virulence had been diminished ! "So potent our lymph, that with it, at death's portal, We urgently prove even death is less mortal }2? God protect our national intellect! Professor Beesley, after remarking that the Archbishop and the Privy Council recommended public prayer for the cure of the Prince of Wales, says- '"'Hingland is a singular country, and we assert our materialism at the expense of the Peculiar People, who find themselves in the dock of an assize-court for taking Archbishop Tait and the Privy Council aw serteun." Is a Communicated Disease Condition, or a Naturally Healthy Condition of Body, the Best and Safest Protection against smallpox ? Mr. G. S. Gibbs, in a letter to the Darlington Times, writes as follows :-' Vaccination 1s, theoretically, the production of the disease of cowpox in the healthy human body: practically, it is the infliction of certain wounds, and the production of a certain amount of discomfort by insertion of irritant poison in these wounds, without regard to what disease may follow in almost necessary sequence.. The vast majority of Anti-vaccinators believe that the offspring of healthy parents are themselves healthy, and that it is the will of the Almighty Ruler of the universe that those parents should, by virtue of the natural instinct implanted in their bosoms, do their utmost to preserve the inherited health of their offspring. They therefore regard the act of vaccination as an act of impiety, which no consent or desire of their fellow-creatures could justify them in practising. (c) They also-at least those of them who have paid attention to the subject-know that the plea put | forward that it is the submission to a mild form of disease in order that a more severe disease may be avoided, or, to use the pithy phrase of Dr. Farr, that the object is to 'fortify the body by a mild disease,' is at once repugnant to common sense, to experience, and to the fundamental principles of physiology, which teach that the true antagonist of disease is health, and not disease in another form." The Perils of Vaccination. The following has been sent to us for publication :- Compulsory Vaccination. To the Editor of the Hampshire Independent. Sir,-The interests associated with our national system of vaccination are too important to permit their discussion being carried on within narrow limits ; but the report which appeared on vaccination- syphilis in Saturday's Lancet (Feb. 1), will give an impetus to the question, calculated to annihilate grave errors of legislation. I have always contended that compulsory stational vaccination necessarily enforced the obtaining of lymph from uncertain sources, possibly more than ninety in a hundred vaccinated at stations being strangers, and their constitutions absolutely unknown. Hence the vaccine lymph, taken after the most superficial inspection-such as I have personally witnessed -must prove a fertile source of blood diseases, in support of which I can relate a striking instance within my own experience. A number of children were vaccinated with lymph supplied from a vaccination station. No cowpox resulted; but in every case a troublesome bullous eruption, which only yielded to specific treatment after many weeks. In no instance have J traced a like disaster where the lymph has been taken from home vaccinations, the constitution of the vaccinated being almost invariably known to the family medical attendant. Dr. Ballard, an eminent authority, writes :- 'It is prudent not to take lymph from an infant under three months of age, since, if any syphilitic taint exist, it will mostly have declared itself by this time." The same authority gives many other excellent cautions, but they are ignored at such public vaccination stations as I have been permitted to visit. The Act 30 and 31 Victoria, cap. 84, directs that every child born in England shall be vaccinated within three months of its birth. J write with the view of directing attention to the importance of amended legislation, and of showing Ay Se ae, a March 1, 1873.] that home vaccination by the ordinary medical attendant can alone be tolerated. Now, in Southampton, that principle was adopted by a former generation more than thirty years ago, when any resident medical man was accepted as vaccinator of the poor at per case, without cost for stations, &c., and the system worked admirably ; so well, that I resided in the town for several years, engaged in an extensive practice, without seeing a case of smallpox . Recently, in the supposed interest of sanitary science, some lucrative posts have been created, and gentlemen of recognised small experience sent over the country for the purpose of changing what was being well done, for something worse. With an increasing population, home vaccination was virtually prohibited, and stational vaccination first established, but soon made compulsory on the masses. The medical officials in Southampton were reduced to six, and shortly to two. The results, as bearing on the increase of smallpox, blood-poisonings, and largely-augmented expenses, have already attracted general attention, and will be dealt with as they deserve. I have briefly noticed a few facts in connection with a subject destined shortly to command consideration, and venture to declare that a more ill-advised measure than compulsory stational vaccination, could not have been legalised. Believing that the country is awaking to the injustice of the measure, and that discussion will hasten its repeal,-I am, sir, &c. Edwin Hearne, M.B., F.R.C.S. Eng. Southampton, Feb. 3. smallpox Statistics of Sweden. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaceinator. Sir,-I enclose you a note received a few weeks ago from Rektor P. A. Siljestrém, of Stockholm. He is one of the most distinguished scientific and educational men in Scandinavia; was a favourite pupil of Berzelius, the great chemist; was attaché to the French Commission for examining scientific (and especially meteorological) questions in Lapland ; and as the author of a great work, translated into English by Miss Rowan, on the " Educational Institutions of the United States," is the founder of modern Swedish national education.-Yours truly, J.J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D. Stockholm, Jan. 81. Dear Sir,-I enclose an abstract of smallpox statistics for Sweden for the years 1820-70. The inferences that may be drawn from this table are the more reliable as there has been no material or positive change as to smallpox legislation during that period. By referring to the Anti-Vaccinator for Dec. 16, 1872, p. 258, and comparing with the Swedish table, you will find how grossly statistics may be abused. Tl try to get up a  . movement here, though the public mind is strongly preoccupied.- Yours truly, P. A. Si j eatiou Dr. Garth Wilkinson, London. - Sweden.*-Deaths from smallpox. Year Year. Year. IoD) Sepose 148 WSBT acces 361 18545 sss 204 1821 3 USB Se acace 1,805 i 51) aes 41 De ose 18: NBSO ssc 1,934 18d56...3.. 52 TO20-2. c. 3s $840... 650 Volt (eae 560 NS24 3, 618 1841 . 3.3. 200 T1858... 1,289 1825... 1,243 tse 58 VS59.. ce 1,470 INSVAG sees 625 ES4S.. oc. 9 ESO. ss. cs 708 TSA ee 600 {Roe as 6 SG lstexr) 193 NS 2S. ea Zou 1845...... 6 ro. 148 US 7 97 cs 53 ES40:0.ccs 2. PS63 on 307 TS805...55 104 i Roy: ere WB USG64 2d... 741 RSSI 5. 612 1628... ve 1865....2. 1,336 Ley aes 622 1849)... 841 1800). ..cc Hal i $oon..: 1,145 13860 ..."0 1.876 fe OLty Ge 1,061 1884...... 1,049 SOs. 2,488 ESO Sintec 1,429 UO8O05080. 445 WSS2e, 05 1,534 1 S69%. cons 1,274 1836) 0.5) 138 1853. 38 279 iol Saenes 764 Population in 1820 2.4.0 2,600,000. a oy see een 4,200,000. Sheffield. Offences against the Vaccination Act.-Before W. K. Peace and W. E. Laycock, Esqrs.-John Buckley, a silver-plater, living in Field Head-road, was summoned for neglecting to comply with the regulations of the Vaccination Act. He had achild born on the 23rd Feb. 1872, which he had neglected to have vaccinated. Huis defence was that he was opposed to vaccination. He was fined 1s. and costs, and ordered to comply with the Act.- William Kitson, a scissors grinder, hving in Mount Pleasant-road, was summoned for a similar offence, and made a like excuse. He was fined 1s. and costs, and ordered to comply. Isaac Briggs, a painter, living in Porter-street, was summoned for a similar offence; and on producing a medical certificate that his child could not bear vaccination, was allowed a month during which to comply with the Act.- William Cox, sawsmith, Danville-street, was summoned for a like offence, and in defence said that vaccination was opposed. to Christianity. He concluded an eloquent address by remarking that if he were cut into mince-meat, and a piece of his flesh sent to every vaccinator in England, it would not alter his opinion.-The Bench, however, were not to be persuaded, and ordered him to pay the costs, and comply with the Act within a week.-Sheffield Independent, Feb. 13. * Vaccination was introduced into Sweden soon after the adoption of the practice in England; and when it is borne in mind what great improvements have been carried out there, ina sanitary point of view, we cannot hide from ourselves the conclusion that vaccination is in Sweden, as in every other country, a miserable failure. Let Sweden give up vaccination, and smallpox will disappear, like the plague and other contemporary diseases which marked the course of civilisation in the Middle Ages. The smallpox of to-day is a oe disease-an artificially manufactured product ! -Hd. A. A 344   (March 1, 1873. The Anti-Gaceiator. March 1st, 1878. Vaccinal syphilis is at length an admitted fact. The contest between the Anti-vaccinators and the Vaccinators with respect to syphilis, and its communicability by vaccine, has been of the hottest and fiercest description; nay, it could not have been waged with greater hostility if the quarrel between us rested upon the issue for a final settlement. Both parties have, in truth, viewed it more or less in that light. For more than twenty years we have urged the point, and for all that time we have been met with the answer-Impossible! We have been told that scientific professors and learned societies-both in England and on the Continent-have instituted actual experiments for the purpose of ascertaining the truth of the assertion, and that in every case-although watched with the argus-eyes of science-the testimony of one has been that of all; syphilis conyeys syphilis, vaccine conyeys vaccine, and that only. The medical societies of England have held and promulgated this doctrine year by year. The Medical Officer of the Privy Council, anxious to settle the inquiry four ever, issued circulars in 1856 to about five hundred of the first physicians and surgeons in the country; and, with very few exceptions, the replies were strictly in accordance with his own theory, and are published at length in his '' Papers relating te the History and Practice of Vaccination."' He said to them-'' Have you any reason to believe or suspe:t that lymph from a true Jennerian vesicle has ever been a vehicle of syphilitic, scrofulous, or other constitutional infection to the vaccinated person ; or that unintentional inoculation with some other disease, instead of the proposed vaccination tion, has occurred in the hands of a duly educated medical practitioner?' In the great majority of replies the answer is simply a stout "No!" in others-"'I do not believe it possible;" and, again, in " twenty," "thirty," or '"'forty years' experience, I have never witnessed any such result." In several cases, however (perhaps twelve or fifteen), the Medical Officer received answers which must have been rather startling. For example: Dr. Lever Physician to Guy's Hospital, London, writes, -''JT must say, Yes. I have known syphilis communicated to a child by the hand of a legally educated medical practitioner." Dr. J. Hutchinson, Surgeon to the Metropolitan Free Hospital, London, says-'' I believe I have seen four or five cases in which local syphilitic affections were induced by vaccination, performed under ordinary circumstances, and by duly qualified "men." "Dr TS) Memeo: Greenock, boldly answers-"'I have every reason to believe that lymph taken from a party with hereditary disease, conveys that disease with it; and Dr. Hamernik, of Prague, gives his testimony thus :-''I regret that this question | must be answered in the affirmative. Where vaccination is practised on a large scale, and where vaccinators have possibly an interest in multiplying operations, care and attention are no longer possible, and very sad accidents must . more or less frequently occur." Dr. Seaton, in his '' Handbook of vaccination tion" (quod vide), quotes authorities, ad nauseam, to show that vaccinal syphilis is a thing impossible; and he devotes a considerable portion of his article to explain away all the recorded cases which are known both in Italy, France, and Germany. He further appropriates three separate paragraphs, in the same work (q. v.) . to show that the '' allegation that syphilis may be invaccinated, is not supported by general professional experience," ''nor by pathological considerations," '' nor by experiment ;"-really following in the same track as Dr. Simon, who, in his papers before referred to, with consummate ability and skill, upholds the same ridiculous doctrine. And, lastly, the press of the country, taking its cue from Dr. Simon and Dr. Seaton, has, of late, urged the views of that school, and denounced, in no measured terms, the thesis which has been the most poignant - KS Se Mared 1, 1873.)  . = and forcible weapon in the armoury of the Anti- vaceinators, Undismayed by this opposition, we have pursued '"' the even tenor" of our way ; and now, at the eleventh hour, as it were, our enemies themselves, with arms reversed, have joined us in our camp, and made common cause withus. For many tedious years we have called 'out of Seir, Watchman, what of the nght:" andthe answer has now been returned, '' Babylon is fallen, is fallen!" During the sittings of the Select Committee on the Vaccination Acts, in May, 1871, and whilst Anti-vaccinators were giving it in evidence that other diseases were transmissible along with the vaccine virus, the doctrine was being enforced by Mr. Hutchinson before the members of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, and on such unquestionable data that the theory ought to have met with instant acceptance. The Faculty, however, reason on different principles to other people. T'acts, like fines, have to assume a cumulative form before the medical mind can be convinced. Common sense is an element which enters not into their organisation. Inductive science has no charm for the great body of the profession. They would never believe in the existence of a lamppost unless they ran their heads full tilt against it, and by the very force of the concussion found themselves sprawling on the floor. At the meeting of the above society, the late Mr. Startin said he had known scabies (itch) communicated in vaccination. Dr. Bakewell, from Trinidad, testified that during the time he had the supervision of vaccination in that island, he had witnessed the transference of leprosy by the operation. Here, then, were three diseases shown to be transmissible in vaccination tion-syphilis, scabies, and leprosy. if syphilis has been invaccinated, why not scabies and leprosy ? and if all three, then why not three more-nay, why not_twenty more? It is perfectly logical to assert that if one disease is clearly proven to be transmissible, and that, so far, vaccino-syphilis is that one, then all other blood-diseases may be shown to follow the same law. That being so, is there, henceforward, to be any doubt how it is that diseases which are communicable by vaccination have increased -----a = oo in correspondence with the development and enforcement of the practice ? Nearly two years have eclapsed since the above discussion, and the medical socicties have been as silent on the subject as the defunct oracles that once swayed the destinies of nations. At length the silence is broken once more, and we hope that some more practical result will followin its.train. At the last meeting of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, on Tuesday, the 28th day of January last, Mr. Hutchinson read another paper on the same subject, and succeeded in establishing his case beyond the region of doubt or uncertainty. It is now to be an admitted fact, that syphilis can be communicated with the vaccine virus, and that a catastrophe which has happened, may happen again to-morrow. The public are now to be roused from the torpor of that security in which they have been "lulled." Dr. Simon and his 500 strong have vanished into thin air. Dr. Seaton will have to eat his own philosophy -a bitter meal, indeed, to a Scot so haughty. No more humiliating admission has been made during the. last half-century. It -is the death-knell of vaccination. So far, however, the reader must be told that the admission is lmited to yaccinal syphilis. The same principle must soon be applied to other diseases, such as scabies, scrofula, pneumonia, and, in fact, to all the sisterhood of diseases which afilict the race. The admission, restricted as it is, must have great influence in determining the continuance of vaccination, when it 1s seen how terrible are the risks attending the operation. We have, for-years past, held the opinion that if vaccinu-syplilis were but once admitted, the observance of vaccination must fall to the ground, and that not so much on account of the risks attending the inoculation of that disease, as on the broader basis. that if one disease is communicable, then the floodgates are thrown open, and he would be a bold man, indeed, who should attempt to put a lmit to the fearful dangers of vaccination. It is our decided opinion that it is impossible to perform the operation without at the same time communicating any taint, or disease condition, of which the vaccinifer may be the subject. . It is our duty now to.ask our Leagues, and very individual member thereof, to begin his daily struggle with this enemy of our race with renewed energy and vigour. No Guardian or Magistrate, with the facts before him to which we have alluded, ought to sanction a single prosecution, or to inflict another fine. Our friends must make the best use of the altered circumstances which have unexpectedly sprung up. Petitions must be sent at once to both Houses of Parliament, embodying the facts and admissions referred to in the leader of our contemporary, Mr. Forster should be urged without delay to bring in a short Bill to abolish compulsory vaccination. The very smallest concession that we should accept, would be a Bill making vaccination optional, as it was in 1841. We doubt whether Parliament could at present be persuaded to go farther than that. Two Protests against State Vaccination. The two following letters we take from the pages of our contemporary, the Ipswich Journal, of Feb. 8, 1873 :- To the Editor of the Ipswich Journal. Sir,-Allow me, through the medium of your paper, to. make a few remarks upon Compulsory Vaccination ; and in doing so, I quite uphold the views of Mr. Cardew's letter of last week. If then it be true that the virus of contamination is capable of being transmitted by the spata and by the blood, as many have asserted, after vigorous experiments, I see no reason why it should not be passed from one body to another in the lymph of a child. Believing, as I do, that contamination ig very freely transmitted by vaccination in this country, I hold it to be my duty to declare my protest against the present system of public vaccination tion. It is reckless and dangerous, and ought, by all means, to be changed. Some may say that, admitting the theory of transmitting this taint, very few are infected; but it is idle on such eround as that to pooh-pooh the necessity for more caution, The truth is nearer at hand in saying that few mon are sufficiently expert to discern it when present in the vaccinited arm. Then, again, few men have extensive opportunities of observation, having few to vaccinate, and not being able at all times to follow up the cases in hand. Itis only where large practice furnishes abundant examples, that reliable 'leprous spots. information can be obtained, and only tken when the surgeon possesses patience and the power of observing accurately. In the public vaccination office there is generally too much haste and indiseriminate selection ; hence any records from such sources are intrinsically valueless. There are, however, resources within the power of the profession and the Legislature, which would obviate much of the present mischief, and save the public health from the risks which are now run wherever yaccination iy performed. As an illustration of the dangers of public vaccination from ''child's lymph," I cannot avoid transcribing the following report of Dr. , of --, in Cornwall. . He says :-"I was called in the summer of 1848, as the medical officer having charge of the sick poor of the parish, to attend two young children of different families, and hving about a quarter of a mile distant from each other. The children were each of them from nine to ten months old. The history of their illness being precisely similar, one description will apply to both. On the first introduction of the compulsory vaccination system, the Guardians of the Union entered into a contract with one medical man to perform the contract for the whole Union. This gentleman, in the discharge of the duty of public vaccinator, attended at the appointed time, and on that particular? day vaccinated these two children, taking lymph from the arm of a child he had vaccinated the preceding week. He appeared (from the most careful personal investigation which I made of this matter at the time) to have vaccinated no other than those two children on the day in question, and to have taken lymph from no other child but the particular one alluded to. Between the second and third week after the vaccination had been performed, I first saw the children. They were literally covered with large pustules; the irritation was most intense, and between rubbing and scratching the head and nates were raw and ulcerated. No treatment had any avail; and both the poor children died in a few days after I first saw them. Being at once impressed that the disease of these children was syphilitic, I made the most careful investigation I could into the whole matter. In both families there were other children perfectly healthy. The parents in. both cases were labourers, of the most healthy appearance, and of good character; were then and ever had been free from syphilitic taint. The respective mothers of both children carried their infants themselves to be vaccinated ; they saw the operation performed, and they saw the child from whom the lymph was taken. They told me the name of the child, and where it lived. Ags medical officer, this child and its mother were both known to me. JI examined the child; it had numerous eruptions about its body, pustules about its nates and trunk, and copper-coloured The public vaccinator lived at a distance, and could not have known the character of the parties from whom he took the lymph." Another authentic instance is that where a German doctor (Hubner) was tried and punished for = : : 4 March 1, 1873.] Public: Health Journal. as having, in 1852, inoculated 13 children with vaccine lymph from a syphilitic child. Of these, five escaped entirely: in the rest, the points of inoculation became slow-spreading ulcers, and three months afterwards general eruptions appeared over the body. Every unprejudiced mind, after perusing the above undoubted citations, will at once see the propriety and absolute necessity for great care and discretion in conducting vaccination. These cases are manifestly crucial, and leave nothing to be said in opposition to the enunciation that many diseases are communicated by vaccination. I advise every mother who presents her child for vaccination, to make inquiries in reference to the purity of the lymph used for her child, and to take every precaution in her power, under the present bunghng system, to secure her infant against contamination. 'The same admonition is given with equal emphasis to all persons who wish to be re-vaccinated, that they should urge their medical attendant, or whoever may be employed to perform the operation, to see that the lymph is judiciously and carefully selected. In the meantime, this is all that can be done by way of security. As affairs now are, certainty of purity in the lymph is scarcely possible, but every precaution should be taken to neutralise the blundering of the present system.- Yours faithfully, SC. Badingham, Feb. 5, 1873. The Vaccination Act. To the Editor of the Ipswich Journal. Sir,-It is high time that those who see the injustice and the iniquity of the Vaccination Act should bestic themselves. 'To the shame and disgrace of England, cases are constantly appearing in the newspapers, of British subjects-and in many cases of those without a stain upon their character being summoned to appear before the magistrates, because, from conscientious objections, founded upon opinions which they have a perfect right to hold, they refuse to suffer their children to be vaccinated. Such imjustice ought not to be tolerated. The power of the sword should be a terror to the workers of evil, and not to some of the coantry's best and most loyal subjects. Belevers in God and the Bible cannot for one moment admit that a man commits a sin of either omission or commission, in refusing to have his child vaccinated. And I say, that if the Word of God is not enough to convince Knglishmen as to whether a thing is right or wrong, England has come to such a pitch as no longer to deserve that protecting Hand which has for so many years in mercy been held over it. i read the case of Mr. Cardew, and his letter in the Ipswich Journal of Saturday, and also Mr. R. Sands' case in that of to-day, and I rejoice to find that there are in Suffolk men holding opinions very similar to those of my own ; and although I am not yet prepared to condemn vaccination altogether, I still maintain the opinion which I held when I addressed my last letter to you upon this subject, which appeared in your journal last September, that an Act of Parliament to enforce vaccination is most unjust. No Government.on earth has a right to say that, whether I like it or not, I must have my child's arm cut and scratched about, and an evil disease of a beast implanted in it. It is unquestionably a case in which the majority ought not to govern the minority. Much is made by the friends of vaccination of the high authorities who stand forth as its advocates. But it should be remembered, that for the most part itis a matter of pounds, shillings, and pence, with many; and that, therefore, men of observation, who neither belong to the medical profession, nor are vaccination officers, but who have had opportunities of visiting amongst our humble brethren both in town and villages, and hearing of, and observing the effects produced by, vaccination, are the men least likely to be prejudiced either one way or the other, and whose opinion, therefore, is most to be depended upon. But in this case, setting aside the question whether in the scales the pros or the cons weigh the heavier, it is, I hold, a question of principle and of subject-right, that no power on earth may interfere | in the matter of vaccination with the authority of the parent, and step in between him and his child. This being a subject of no small importance, I shall be happy to correspond with any who may hold the opinions embodied in this letter, and to assist in the formation of an Anti-vaccination Act League, whose object shall be to petition Parliament upon the subject, and not to rest tyl the Vaccination Act is repealed.-I am, yours respectfully, Mundeford Allen, Vicar of Winston. Winston Vicarage, Stonham, Feb. 4, 1873. Anti-Vaccination Meeting at Dewsbury. On Tuesday evening, a social gathering of the Executive of the Dewsbury and District Anti-vaccination League, was held at Harling's Temperance Hotel, Church-street, Dewsbury. Among those present were-Councillor Pickering, of Leeds ; Messrs. W. F. Fox (president), a member of the Board of Guardians; Burman (vice-president), Wormald Waring, J. Allen (Batley), D. Garside, O. Jepson, Day, Wilkinson, Darnborough, Ives, Ellis, Taylor, Webster, Ogden, Butterfield, Webster, Bell Hardy, Harrison (Goole), and Mr. J. Sykes (hon. secretary). After the sumptuous repast had been disposed of, a meeting was held. Mr. W. EF. Fox presided, anc after expressing the pleasure he had in presiding over 348   {March 1, 1873. the gathering, hoped it would only be the inauguration of a happier and more prosperous era. Having' read letters from several gentlemen who were unable to attend, he said there never was a matter so little known that had taken such rapid strides in public opinion as that which concerned Anti-vaccination. It had already prospered beyond expectation, and he believed it would continue todoso. He also believed in what Dr. Carpenter had said at Brighton- The time has now arrived when the common gense and intelligence of the masses will have to be taken upon social and scientific subjects." With regard to the Compulsory Clauses, he was strongly of opinion, if the town and district were canvassed, 17 out of every 20 persons would be in favour of their repeal. He afterwards pointed out that the enforcement of repeated penalties rested entirely with the Guardians. Mr. John Svkes read the report, which showed that on the first meeting six members were enrolled, men who were determined to fight vaccination to the death. Since then fresh members had been added weekly. With regard to funds, there remained a balance in the hands cf the treasurer. During the half-year just past there had been two public lectures on the vaccination delusion-the one by Dr. Sexton, and the other by Councillor Pickering, of Leeds. Their society was pre-eminently a missionary one, and must wage war with vaccination, which was the greatest physical cheat and swindle ever foisted on a sensible people. The report went on to say "Vaccination robs us of our children, degrades our nature, mars our happiness, dishonours God, who pronounced the works of His hands good; and thus provokes His wrath. When its enormity is properly understood, its very name will excite abhorrence, and its recollection inspire remorse and horror." Mr. Pickering, who was warmly received, said it afforded him much pleasure to meet the members of the Executive of the Dewshury League. That pleasure was enhanced by the fact that Dewsbury had taken a leading part in the movement {hey were met to discuss and promote; and by the earnest attitude of the members he augured well for the labours of the current year. He said the movement was striking its roots deeper into the public mind every day, and in every quarter of the globe. He was now in correspondence with medical men, and intelligent laymen, not only in England, but also in France, Germany, Holland, America, Canada, and even in New Zealand and Australia; and from them all it was singular to note how each one agreed with the main points and principles which are the basis and strength of the Anti-vaccination cause. Another significant fact was, that in several towns the press was reading up and writing in a more liberal temper with regard to the statements, the statistics, and the principles advocated by the Anti-vaccinators. The truth was, that the press, like the general public, wanted information upon the subject, and that information could not be too elementary in its character ; first principles are always simple-simple as truth itself; and the danger was great lest the Anti-vaccinators should shoot over the heads of the people. If he might give advice to the League, he would say-there were two considerations he would urge upon their attention: first, they must return good men and true as members of the Board of Guardians ; and secondly, it had become a positive necessity that the cause should be represented in the House of Commons. As for the Guardians, they were the first to set the law in motion. He need not say that some Guardians had stood out nobly in their cause. Mr. Dear, chairman of the Newport Board, had declined to consent to order prosecutions to be repeated, and sooner than do it he offered to resign his chairmanship. At Gainsborough, Leek, Sheffield, the Guardians had practically entered their protest against the cumulative penalty clauses of the Vaccination Acts. All honour to them! At other places how different was the temper displayed by Guardians! At the meeting of the Prescot Union the other day, the question was under discussion, and a Guardian, named Brown, on being told that some recalcitrant parents had written to the St. Helens newspapers, observed--"' Then show them no quarter." If Guardians were determined to fight a hand-to-hand battle-if it came to the question of ' "no quarter "'-depend upon it, the great masses of the people would soon settle the point for ever. They must work hard to return men ag Guardians ~ who would think for themselves; men who would not be led into a course of action which may be prescribed either by the medical officer of the Privy Council, or even the Local Government Board. As to the other point, he regarded it as the most important subject before them, namely-that the cause should be represented in the Commons Iouse of Parliament. The Faculty who supported and upheld the practice of vaccination were too strong for them; they had the ears of the leaders of the Government, and it was next to impossible that the Anti-vaccination movement could force its way into the notice of such men as Gladstone and Forster, unless they had a representative personally to attend to their interests. It was known to all of them that Mr. Chambers, Mr. Candlish, Mr. Pease, and Mr. Jacob Bright, were not Anti-vaccinators-they were simply opposed to compulsory vaccination. In conclusion, he was glad to announce the inauguration of a Mothers' Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League. He hoped much from that' society; there were connected with it a great many names of women who had done much service in sanitary matters, and female devotion was never sanctified by a nobler cause than that they were met to promote that evening. He wished the League Godspeed ! Mr. John Clarke, in the course of a long speech on . the subject, said that the art of curing one disease 4 q ¥ ' 2 , ; by inserting another was altogether contrary to his a a is ee | March 1, 1873.]  . | 349 philosophy. Referring to a sentence contained in the report, he said that in the removal of ignorance they would have a struggle which would demand their energy, patience, and fortitude. He contended that vaccination was no science at all; and was exceedingly indignant to: know that conscientious reasonable persons who differed from those who held other views, were liable to be sent to prison. Nay, that even was not the height of degradation to which they were subject. Only a short time ago he felt intense excitement at secing one of the gentlemen present, because he refused to have his child vaccinated, or pay the cumulative penalty which was then imposed, dragged handcuffed along with two dirty harlots, in broad daylight, through the marketplace of Dewsbury. School Board), the next speaker, admitted that he had not paid that attention to the subject as to be able to enter into the merits or demerits of it; but was of opinion that vaccination was wrong, and therefore had come to the determination, henceforth and for ever, that none of his children should be vaccinated. He mentioned that those of his own family who had been vaccinated, had died after the operation, and those who had not, lived. Having related the conversations he had hid with medical men on the subject, he pointed out that, in point of fact, they had admitted that vaccination was nota preventive of disease. He considered the committee had worked hard on behalf of the cause. He afterwards condemned the system of compulsory vaccination, and thought the honest conviction of those who were sufferers by vaccination, and who believed that it was a positive wrong, would receive the support which was necessary to bring about the repeal of the Compulsory Vaccination Acts, which pressed so heavily upon them. Mr. Allen (of Batley) was happy to say that he had not been vaccinated, though he had been bled. Having at some length deprecated the system of vaccination, he said when his mother was 50 years old she was vaccinated, and at 51 had the pleasure of having the smallpox. Vaccination appeared to him something on the same }rinciple as this-they had better cut their fingers now, for fear they should do so some time else by accident. He did not consider it any disgrace to go to prison, rather than have their children vaccinated. Mr. Garside said he had hd a strong desire to see the compulsory clause done away. He felt it was wrong, and there had been many a man hanged for crimes of less magnitude than vaccinating children. Such cutting and carving almost made him sick when he thought of it. He afterwards expressed sympathy with the movement they were met to promote, Mr. Bell Hardy having spoken on the subject, the meeting was brought to a close by votes of thanks to the secretary and chairman,-Dewsbury Standard, Jan. 18. Vaccination Prosecutions. Stamford.* Mr. Jonathan Bettle, grocer and provision dealer, St. Mary's Hill, Stamford, was again summoned to the Petty Sessions, on Saturday, for neglecting to comply with an order of the Bench, requiring him to have his child vaccinated. Mr. Laxton appeared for the Board of Guardians, with whom these proceedings originated. . When called up, the Defendant asked who were the prosecutors in this case ? Mr. Laxton: My instructions came from the Board | of Guardians. Mr. Bettle: I ask the question, because when I % : | was here on a former occasion, one of the Guardians Mr. Wormald Waring (a member of the Batley | said-'' I shall make it my business to look into this matter:" and I wish to express my opinion that such language was uncalled for, and out of place. Mr. Paradise: You had better name the magistrate. Mr. Bettle: Mr. Paradise. Mr. Paradise : Such an observation never escaped my lips. You had better confine yourself to truth. Mr. Bettle: Another observation made by Mr. Paradise was, that while I remained in this country I ought to obey the country's laws. Now, first of all, let me say I am not a believer in vaccination. And I would ask, if itis doing so much good that the Government havea right to compel the people to submit to it, how isit that after vaccination has been so long introduced into this country, and when it has been made compulsory for 16 years, last year smallpox proved so fatal in many parts of England ? Then, I believe vaccination itself docS harm. And, agin, I think smallpox is not such a curse as we imagine it to be. I believe it to be a cure of consumption, and though I should not wish to put my children in the way of catching it, I should feel sitisfied that 1f they had smallpox without having been vaceinated, they would be very much less likely to die of consumption than they are at the present time. J urther, I deny the right of any Government to enact such laws as may deprive the Queen's subjects of anything for which Government cannot give an equivalent; for, if my thcory is correct, vaccination may rob my childien of their health, which certainly the Government can never restore. I am quite aware it is not for you to consider these things; and J cannot ask you to have any sympathy with an offender against the law. Still, I cannot conscientiously comply with the law. 1 would rather take the alternative of paying a fine. Mr. Laxton said the defendant was in error as to the number of years compulsory vaccination had been in force. The Act was passed in 1867. Mr. Paradise informed the defendant that 19 out of 20 of those who died from small pox last year were unvaccinated. * This prosecution is referred to in the leading article in No. 21, p. 329. soo Mr. Michaelson reminded the defendant of the frightful havoc made by smallpox in all the countries of the world previous to the introduction of vaccination tion. Mr. Paradise: I say again, as I said before, that so long as a man remains in this: country, he must obey the country's laws. Mr. Michaelson: You don't give us any assurance, Mr. Bettle, that you will obey the law. Defendant: I cannot while my views remain as they are. - Mr. Paradise: Then these proceedings must go on periodically. The Clerk remarked that Mr. Bettle seemed to think that this prosecution originated with some individual Guardian. That was an error. The matter was necessarily brought before the Board, and by the Board's orders these proceedings were taken. : Mr. Laxton: This is the only case of the kind in the whole Union. There was one other objected, but he has complied with the order made upon him. Mr. Healy thought that as Mr. Bettle acted from a conscientious motive, the Bench should inflict the lowest possible fine. Mr. Paradise : What was the fine before ? Clerk: Ten shillings. Mr, Paradise: We cannot go below that. It is usual in all cases to increase the penalty for a second offence. Mr. Healy: The fact is, this is a conscientious act on the part of the defendant, andI maintain that the lowest possible fine ought to be inflicted. | The other members of the Bench demurred to this notion; Mr. Patterson observing that Mr. Bettle's views were utterly at variance with science. The Magistrates then retired. On their return into court, the Mayor said -the Bench had carefully considered the case, and had decided to impose a fine of 12/-, with -£1. 2s. 6d. costs. A distress warrant would be issued in default of payment; with the alternative of one month's imprisonment. At the same time, the Bench desired to caution Mr. Bettle that if he persisted in his present line of. conduct and was brought up again, as he no doubt would be, they should have no option but to inflict the full fine. It was mentioned that Mr. Bettle might be proceeded against every three months, and that he was liable for other children, as well as the one which made the ground of action in this case, - Lincoln Chronicle. Grays. An Obstinate Anti-vaccinator.-John Whitmore, labourer, Grays, was again summoned to show cause why his daughter, Mary Ann Whitmore, of the age of 26 months, should not be vaccinated.- Defendant, who was attired hike a clergyman, asked for an adjournment of the case, as he had had but one clear day since receiving the sammons. He was but a farm labourer, and had been half a dozen times summoned before for this same offence, and   [March 1, 1873. came before them on the last bench day.-The Chairman gave defendant, as a private individual, a number of statistics, showing how great a difference there was in the spread of the smallpox between persons vaccinated and those not vaccinated.- Mr. Smalley said the reason defendant had such short notice was because he saw the defendant, and endeavoured to get him to have the child vaccinated, and only granted the summons at the last moment as he was obstinate. -Mr. Heigho opposed the application, as he considered' the plea, in plain English, "bunkum."' Defendant had been frequently expostulated with and warned, and therefore was not unprepared,--The Defendant had a long discussion with the Bench upon the whole question of vaccination tion: he was told that if he would promise to have the child vaccinated he-would not have to appear again, but after great hesitation he declined to give the promise, and the case proceeded. - George Heigho, vaccination officer for the Orsett Union, said he was instructed by the Guardians, at their last meeting, to take proceedings against defendant unless he vaccinated his child: he clearly proved the case. -Cross-examined: Had no recollection of calling defendant an old fool, but he honestly believed he was one (laughter): knew of his own knowledge that the child was not vaccinated; the defendant _had been ordered to bring the child, but had not done so, as he said it would be "'a physical ill possibility." -Fined 20/-, but allowed a week in which to pay. Should the child be vaccinated within the week the fine would be remitted ; in either case he would have (c) to pay the costs, 8/6.-The Essex Newsman, Dec. 14. Stubbin. An <Anti-Vaccinator of Stubbin Fined.-George Winn, boot and shoe maker, of Stubbin, was charged with neglecting to vaccinate his child.-Mr. J. G. Gradwell stated that the defendant's child was born on the 27th April, this year, and was registered on thesameday. Defendant received from the registrar a notice to comply with the vaccination laws. He did not do so, and on the 18th October witness served him with-a notice, reminding him that he had not received a certificate from the doctor of the successful vaccination.-Defendant: My child is in good health, and I don't wish it to be poisoned. IfI had twenty children I don't think I should have one vaccinated.-The Chairman: Then I shall fine you 20s. -The defendant paid the fine.-Barnsley Times, Noy. 30. Vaccination Cases.-Mr. George Winn, of Stubbin, was charged, on the information of Mr. Gradwell, - vaccination officer for the Barnsley Union, that he had neglected, after due notice had been given him to do so, to vaccinate his son, Edwin Wynne, a child eight months old.-Mr. Gradwell stated that on the 27th November last, the defendant was fined 20s. and costs for the same offence. A notice to have his child vaccinated had subsequently been served upon him, and it expired on the 11th December. That notice had been disregarded, inasmuch as he (Mr, - eS ee ee ee see ee eS N ee ee ee ee ee od on is March 1, 1873.]  . 351 Gradwell) had received no certificate showing either that the child had been vaccinated, or that it was unfit for the operation.-The Defendant admitted that he had received the notice, and said that his reason for not attending to it was that he had seen a good deal of the baneful effects of vaccination. -The Chairman : We will not go into that.-The Defendant : If I had twenty children, not one of them should be vaccinated.-The Chairman: We do not make the law; the law provides that children shall be vaccinated, and we administer it.-The defendant contended, that as no order had been made by the magistrates for the vaccination of his child, he had no right to be summoned.-The Magistrates interpreted the law differently, and were of opinion that the notice given by the officer was sufticient.-In accordance with the request of the Chairman, the child was brought into court, and the defendant said: Don't you think he looks healthy without any doctor? -The Chairman: Oh yes, I can congratulate you on the healthiness of your family.-Defendant: You know, if he were vaccinated and got some bad matter in him, he would not be so healthy.-The Chairman: | We cannot put the law aside.-Mr. Milner: You must get your child vaccinated.-Defendant: I won't, if I have to go to prison when I am tired of paying.-The Chairman: You will have to pay 20s. and costs.-Defendant: The matter will have to go to a higher court.-The Chairman: Yes, take it to a higher court.-Defendant: Magistrates are appointed to administer the law, and not to violate it.- The Chairman: We think we are administering the law.-Mr. Gradwell then received instructions to go through the legal process again, unless the law were complied with, and the defendant retired. Arthur White, Hoyland Common, was summoned for not having his child, which was born on June 21st, vaccinated, in accordance with the provisions of the law. Defendant denied having received a notice, and as, in consequence of the notice having been sent by post, there was no means of ascertaining the truth or otherwise of his assertion, the case was dismissed. He had not, however, left the court building. before Mr. Gradwell personally served him with a notice, and unless the terms of that notice be complied with, the case will again come before the court. -Barnsley Times, Jan. 4, 1873. Gainsborough. Before Sir C. H. J. Anderson, Bart., Rev. G. Hutton, G. A. Luard, Esq., and the Right Hon. Lord Hawke. Prosecutions for Neglect of Vaccination. Five persons had been summoned for non-compliance with the requirements of the Vaccination Act; and Mr. Baker, of London, barrister, was engaged to defend them.- Mr. Howlett appeared to prosecute.-The first case called was that of Joseph Staniland, farmer, Kexby.-Mr. Brownlow, registrar of births, gave formal evidence proving the birth of the defendant's child on the 26th November, 1871, and that it had not been vaccinated as required by the law.-Mr. Baker admitted the charge, and said it only remained for him to address a few words to the Bench. He was quite conscious of the difficulty an advocate had to contend with under the Vaccination Act, but of course it was his duty to do the best he could for his client under the circumstances. There could be no doubt that there was a great deal of prejudice in this matter, and the only point it was open for him to urge in favour of the defence, was one which came under Section 29 of the Act of 1867, which said-' Every parent or person having the custody of a child who shall neglect to take such child, or to cause it to be taken, to be vaccinated, or after. vaccination to be inspected, and shall not render a reasonable excuse for his neglect, shall be guilty of an offence," &c. It was open, according to this section, for the defendant to show "a reasonable excuse,'' and he proceeded therefore to show that there was such excuse in this case. In all cases | of criminal procedure they were in the habit of looking for a motive. They were to look for a motive against the criminal-for he stood there as such-in this case; and it was left to the justices in their discretion to consider whether the excuse was a reasonable one or not. It was scarcely necessary for him (the learned gentleman) to say that the defendant was acting up to his conscientious convictions as thenatural guardian of the child. The defendant had a child two years old which was vaccinated against his wish, in compliance with the law, and within two days it broke out in terrible boils, which had been discharging more or less ever since. The parents of this child also happened to know other similar cases attended with similar results. The defendant moreover believed conscientiously that the returns of the Registrar-General were correct, and from these returns he found that so far from vaccination tion preventing smallpox, the more smallpox extended.-The Chairman intimated that there must of necessity be a conviction.-Mr. Baker technically admitted that, providing that the magistrates were not convinced that there was a reasonable excuse. Under the 32nd section of the Act it was an offence to inoculate with variolous matter, or by any other means to produce the disease of smallpox. What he had said, however, was that an excuse was offered, and until it were shown that a British subject had done that which the law technically called neglect, he was not liable to a penalty. In this case, he held that his client had not been guilty of neglect, having paid £28, and more, for the treatment of his first child as the result of vaccination.-Mr. Luard reminded Mr. Baker that he was making a statement which he might not intend to offer evidence upon.- Mr. Baker said his client had seen something done to his first child; he saw the result, and he formed an opinion. Besides this, the Act itself was bad. It was such that they could not enforce it, they could not compel a conscientious parent to vaccinate his child -although they might ruin him; and he held that where there was a reasonable .cxcrvse they were not bound to convict. fle might mention the evidence before the House of Commons of the direct trans- = 352 'The Anti-Vaccinator. [Mach 1, 1873. mission of disease by vaccination.-The magistrate again objected.-Mr. Baker said he mentioned it as evidence contained in the Bluebook or Government returns, and said that according to the Act a man who saw these results, examined the figures, and acted according to his conscience, was therefore a criminal.-The magistrates suggested that the opponents of vaccination should get the law altered.- Mr. Baker said it was of no use a poor man talking of altering the law; and if the Bench said they knew nothing of these returns, and they refused to hear what the returns were, how was the opinion of the country to be enlightened?- The Chairman remarked that they had the Act of Parliament before them; and after quoting a passage from it, said that by that Act they should be guided.-Mr. Baker then urged another ''reasonable excuse." If the father said "I will obey the law and have my child vaccinated," and the mother said 'You shall not,'' what was the man todo? He did not think he could ask a mother who had seen one of her children suffering from a certain operation, to submit another child to the same operation. He could not ask her, as a man.-The magistrates then consulted, and ultimately inflicted a fine of 20s. and 13s. 6d. costs.-The cases of George Snow, North Warren, and Amos Robinson, Sandsfield-lane, were next called, "nd the decision in these cases followed that in the first. They were each fined 20s. and 9s. 6d. costs.-The cases of James Lister, Lea-road, and John Staniland, both of Gainsburgh, were then called. These parties had each been fined previously, and the contention was that they could not be put in jeopardy for a second offence, and that there was nothing in the Act of Parliament to warrant it. The whole spirit of the enactment pointed to one single penalty. This offence had been adjudicated upon; and he might add, that in a similar case, Mr, Mansfield, a London stipendiary, had refused to grant a second summons. Mr. Forster had brought in a Bill to do away with repeated punishment, but it was thrown out of the Lords by one ina house of fifteen. Mr. Stansfeld, the head of the Local Government Board, had said that it was quite a mistake for magistrates to go cn to a second conviction. His second argument was, that Mr. Brownlow in these cases could not ask for an order upon the defendants before giving them notice. He was aware that notice had been served on the first occasion, but he quoted the opinion of the Lord Chief-Justice to show that a fresh notice must be given before proceeding under the 31st section. He then asked Mr. Brownlow if he had given such notice ?'-Mr. Brownlow said he had not served a second notice.-At this juncture a number of persons in the crowd behind Mr. Brownlow expressed their feeling against him in a kind cf groan, which led to one of them being ignominiously ejected from the court.-Mr. Howlett urged that the first notice fulfilled every requisite for the second offence.-The magistrates dismissed the two cases, on the ground that fresh notices had not been served, and it was understood that second notices would be issued.- Retford and Gainsburgh News. Marylebone. The Vaccination Act.-William Young, chemist, of No. 8, Neeld-terrace, was summoned on account | of an offence under the Vaccination Acts of 1867 and 1871. Mr. Dudman, the officer, said the register of births showed that the defendant's child had not been vaccinated. The defendant had sent him a certificate, signed by Dr. J. W. Collins, certifying that the child in question was in an unfit state to be vaccinated.-Mr. Roche said he believed Dr. Collins held vaccination to be improper in any case.-Mr. Mansfield said if this could be proved to his satisfaction, he should not pay any attention to the certificate-The case was then adjourned.-On the resumed examination, Mr. Dudman said he had seen Dr. Collins, who admitted that he had written the certificate produced, and that he was the author of a pamphlet bearing the title-'' Have You Been Vaccinated ?" He said that on Tuesdays and Fridays people came to him from all parts for such certificates. He did not attend anyone now, and had given up practice. He would (he said) do all in his power to prevent the working of the Compulsory Vaccination Acts. Witness saw the defendant on the 27th of December, and he then refused to have his child vaccinated. He would not let witness see the child. The Guardians had been put to considerable expense by the obstinacy of the defendant, and he should therefore ask for costs.-The Defendant said this was the fifth time he had been compelled to appear at this court in similar proceedings, and he could only say, that nothing would induce him to have his children vaccinated.-Mr. Mansfield said he thought him a cruel father, to subject his children to the dangers of smallpox, and ordered him to pay a fine of 20s. and 20s. costs.- Reynolds' Newspaper, Jan. 17. Sheffield. On Tuesday evening, the Sheffield Branch of the Anti-Compu'sory Vaccination League held a public tea at the Lansdown Club-room, Lansdown-road. After tea, I. Cooper, Esq., a member of the Infirmary Board, was voted to the chair; and in the course of 'his remarks, he said he thought there must be some good in vaccination, otherwise the medical profession would not sav so much in its favour.-Messrs. Swinscoe and Pearson ably showed that there was no foindation for this belief, and cited statistics to prove the utter worthlessness of vaccination as a protection against smallpox.- Messrs. Rodgers, Wilmot, Cheetham, and others, also addressed the meeting, exhorting all present to be united in demanding the repeal of the harsh and tyrannical Compulsory Vaccination Laws, which are a disgrace to our boasted civilisation. The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country distri:ts, at the foilowing rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6. months.......... 1s. 6d., Do. 12 Oe ots 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. SS an ee Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. es gt: ; The Anti-Vaccinator, and  . =a) Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.8., F.S.8., F.8.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. i J . Pit 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator see Bienen 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. j a All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 23. New Series. Mareh 15; 1878. [Price One Penny. Contents, re: Page Notes on Passing Events ......cs.e.seerssseees 853 Vaccinal Syphilis .....ccccesccccccsccscccveress 355 Vaccinal Syphilis.....cccsersccccscccccccsseree 356 Acknowledged at Last!.....ceescceseneceseeers 358 The Tyranny of Vaccination ....sceesseeesseee 859 smallPox in Birmingham ...-...e...seseresee 359 PIGIGOTIALOATEICIS 2.0 cswidasiccdeciclccescsses scenes 360 Vaccination Tyranny ......cessccecccsscccccees 862 Vaccination Squib ........-ccssscesessoccocess 362 Isle of Wight Board of Guardians ............ 363 Glossop Board of Guardians .....+....+.ee-eee 364 Dewsbury Board of Guardians .......eeseeee ee 365 Vaccination Prosecutions :-Dewsbury.... ..... 865 The Vaccinator and his Wife.........se-eseees 366 The Banner of Light, a journal printed in New-York, publishes the following article :- Certain parties are trying to get a law through our Legislature compelling vaccination. We protest against poisoning the people of the Commonwealth in this manner. Better by far have the smallpox, and take the risk of living. We have seen any number of people who have of late had their blood so poisoned by being vaccinated, that their sickness was infinitely worse than if they had had the real smallpox. We know of a young man, of sound health, who was vaccinated, and died in consequence within ten days after the operation. If no bad results become apparent at the time of inoculation, in some individuals, that is no surety they are all right. We have known many persons-after a few years-become prematurely near-sighted from no other cause than vaccination to prevent smallpox. We trust that our new Board of Health will thoroughly canvass this matter ere they recommend a law compelling vaccination. Why, the English dread vaccination so terribly-and it has proved such a curse to them-that they have a paper, called the Anti-vaccinator, devoted exclusively to the _ subject. And yet the English Parliament stupidly keeps a law compelling vaccination upon the statute book. The public health authorities of Boston are perfectly rabid on vaccination. We wish our friends across the Atlantic would take up this subject. America is behindhand. England, Germany, and Canada, are leading the way. We have strong faith, and we derive encouragement from the fact, that when America sees with us, she will act with greater energy than any other country. She' may come into the vineyard at the eleventh hour, but, in our triumph, we will join with her in the honour of haying exterminated the scourge of nations. The prosecution of W. Taylor, of Dewsbury, in November last, only came under our notice the other day, and we think it right to record the circumstance here, although it took place four months back, because there are peculiar features about it which deserve publicity, Mr. Taylor declined to pay the fine, and pleaded his conscientious scruples. Mr. Bates (the Mayor) answered him tauntingly-''I quite sympathise with you in your conscientious objections ; I have had plenty of them in my time; but 354   {March 15, 1873. this is not the place to deal with them." We have heard of crocodile's tears, and. sympathy hke the above is next of kin. It appears, however, that the Mayor has been troubled, perhaps in his earlier days, with conscientious scruples-but where are they now? Conscience, long disregarded, may make cowards of some, but hardens others. We trust this is not the case with Mr. Bates; but in his mistaken zeal for the law, the magistrate sent the man to gaol. A friend of ours, in passing through the streets of Dewsbury, met Taylor on his way to Wakefield House of Correction, manacled between two prostitutes!! This incident in the life of Mr. Taylor redounds to his honour ; but so far as the magistrate is concerned, it may one day trouble him sorely. We confess that, personally, we should not like to have the remembrance of it. It is all very well to say- ''Tt is the law;"' such an argument is mere childishness. Happy indeed is the man who has passed beyond such puerile considerations, and has learned to temper justice with mercy! In our next number we shall give the report of the recent prosecution of the Rey. Geo. Cardew, of Helmingham Rectory. In No. 21, we gave the report of the first summons against him, when an order was made; and the last summons was for disobedience of that same order. Mr. Cardew's manly bearing on both occasions, merits public approbation. The magistrates found themselves in the hands of a stronger man than the strong man armed, and they declined to listen to his arguments, fearing lest they should be infected by the contagion of his philosophy. Mr. Cardew played with the magnates of the law, as a cat toys with a mouse; butthere was no answer to his logic, only this-'' It is the law, and you must obey." To this argument Mr. Carden answered - "Never!" He told them pretty plainly that his allegiance was due first to God, and then to man. 'Touching Jenner's diaglyphics, Mr. Cardew asks-'' Whose image and superscription is this?" Itis Casar's. Then his reply undoubtedly is-'' Render to Cesar the things that are Czesar's, and to God the things that are ' the -country-7.¢., slaughter-houses for stamping and intemperance; and no power on earth has the right to call upon me to inflict a diseased condition on my child, and to inject into the pure current of its young blood the essence of filth and uncleanness in its most repugnant form -that of vaccination. To enforce a rite like this by the strong arm of the law, is a sort of coercion that no man can submit to. He is an oppressor that dares to use compulsion in that behalf. What with one report and another in connection with vaccination and its doings, or rather misdoings, one is always kept on the alert, and anxious to see what is the next moye on the board. The Manchester Evening News of January 30 has a small paragraph to the following effect :-Sent to Prison for Leaving a Smail-Pcoa Hospital. -At Newcastle (Staffordshire), yesterday, Edward Minton, who had been a patient in a smallpox Hospital in that town, was sent to gaol for a month, for having left that institution without having obtained a medical certificate. If the Newcastle smallPox. Hospital is like rest of the hospitals throughout the out smallpox by stamping out the patients- we think poor Minton may congratulate himself that by changing his quarters he may have saved his life: that is the only consolation we can offer him. But what does it mean? and what is the interpretation thereof? It is this: - The Faculty, who usurp all the medical appointments, have in reality ''no treatment" for the smallpox; and so the luckless patient who is sent to the hospital is literally imprisoned there until the disease has run its course, and he has become (in consequence of the mal-treatment, or the admitted no-treatment) a sort of centre of contagion; and to prevent his doing mischief by diffusing contagious matter-which, under proper conditions, would neyer have been manufactured-he must obtain a medical certificate, that he may leave without anybody being injured by a stray epithelial scale, a breath from his surcharged lungs, or a waiting God's," Disease is the penalty of uncleanliness | germ from the lappet of his tattered garment March 15, 1878.]  . 55S What a curse is this medical tyranny under which we '"' travail in pain together until now''! A man can actually, in this free country of ours, be seized and sent to gaol for a month, because he has been clever enough to escape from the clutches of men who admit that for his special disease, and many others of the same type, they have ''no treatment," and from which the man's instincts teach him that safety consists in flight! The day of freedom is at-hand; and on that day we will reckon up for all the evils that afflict us now. There is but one remedy, and that is ''free medicine;"' and towards that goal we are hastening as fast as time can carry us. We cannot hide from ourselves the fact that there is, in truth, one law for the rich and another for the poor! Here is aninstance, If Minton had been a rich man who had escaped from his nurses, even in his sober senses or in his delirium, would he have been taken straightway to prison? Not a bit of it. The whole proceeding is monstrous. treated with a bath thrice a-day after his first admission to the hospital, there would have been neither delirium, disfigurement, nor death, and no contagious matter could have been produced, by any chance; and the moment the patient was able to walk, he might have left the hospital without the smallest danger either to man, woman, or child. But medical imbecility allows the smallpox to run its course, and the patient takes his chance of life or death: if death, there is an end to him; if life, he has yet to battle with pent-up disease germs, until, by lapse of time, unassisted nature has thrown them off by one channel or another, and then his gaoler must certify his fitness to re-enter the society from whose care he ought never to have been rudely taken. The dread of smallpox isa bugbear of more fearful proportions than the disease itself. The consequences attending or following smallpox are the result of bad treatment; and the superstitious fear of the disease is put forward as an apology for professional incapacity. Contagion is a slowly-manufactured product. When mankind shall know more of these matters, the physician, and not the patient, will find himself in '" gaol for a month," If Minton had been ~ -Vaeecinal syphilis." By Josef Hamernik, M.D., Professor of the University of Prague, Bohemia. Some years since, some terrible cases came to light, which were falsely registered as an epidemic (epidemic of vaccino-syphilis), and which were caused by one vaccinator infecting a whole district with syphilis by vaccination ! In the beginning of this year a similar misfortune occurred in the neighbourhood of Melnik, when a number of children in several districts got syphilis by vaccination, and several died of it. The Director of the Sanitary Council in Bohemia, Dr. Skoda, thought to hush up and conceal the affair. Threo doctors, who remarked upon this circumstance, which spread dismay and consternation through the whole district, were rebuked for interfering; while the vaccinator, an ordinary country surgeon- who is now doing a good business in another place-was looking out for a reward! Had Dr. Skoda recognised the signification and real calamity of such an occurrence, he would probably have appointed a Commission of upright and independent professional men to inquire into the matter, and occupied himself with the business that lay nearer his hand. What are at present the regulations of the General Hospitals? The young men finish their medical edueation, and become doctors, without having learned of their teachers even what is necessary as a foundation for medical studies. Then these doctors become hospital physicians, and arrange everything as they like in the hospitals, which ought, properly speaking, to be the school for the further improvement of physicians. In the same way the professors are first-class physicians who are unacquainted with the arrangements of the establishment, and frequently do not even know the doctors connected with it. The professors are scarcely fitted to fill such situations ; their attainments rather tend to fit them for private practice, as their principal object is profit. Dr. Skoda, in his circuit of visits, took it very ill of several hospital physicians, and rebuked them, because he was not once greeted as the principal member of the medical staff. This simple fact speaks eloquently enough as to the estimation in which Dr. Skoda holds the hospital, and how industriously and constantly he is occupied in the wards. The fatal story of the syphilisation of the children in the neighbourhood of Melnik cannot be hushed up, and I hope that one of the three doctors will publish the facts in the environs of the place where they occurred, as he himself told them to me. my x se % * This article is translated from a pamphlet written by Dr, Hamernik, entitled ''The History of smallpox and Vaccinas tion," and published at Prague in 1872, 356   {Maroh 15, 1873. Professor Monteggia, in a paper read on the 17th February, 1814, before the Institute of Science and Arts in Milan, maintains 'that if a syphilitic child be the vaccinifer, the pustule which ensues contains both viri. In 1825, Gaspari Carioli expressed the same opinion. Marcolini mentions the following facts: - "Cattarina Sclibino,* two and a half months old, having the appearance of good health, was vaccinated. The vaccine was successful, and on the 16th of June, 1814, ten children were vaccinated with the lymph taken from her arm; and from these ten, thirty others were subsequently vaccinated. A few months after, Cattarina Sclibino died, and also five of the first ten children who had been vaccinated from her. Only seven of the thirty who had subsequently been vaccinated came under the observation of the doctors; of these seven, one was seized with a disease which it communicated to its brothers and sisters, and another had fits.: The parents of Cattarina Sclibino had been syphilitic a long time before, and had forgotten the circumstance. A few days after vaccination, pustules came out thickly over the child's body, neck, mouth, forehead, &c. The other children also had similar eruptions, with ulcers in the mouth and warts on the body. These symptoms were also shared by several nurses who had charge of the children, and by other children who were brought up with them." Since that time several accidents of this kind have been made known, and have been designated '' Wpidemics of Vaccino-syphilis."" According to my firm opinion as to the nature of an epidemic, such' cases as these cannot be viewed in that light. It is, however, a terrible occurrence ; and in all cases it is disguised in a strikingly similar manner, as in the Melnik case, and in Cattarina Sclibino's case. Tt would be a source of rejoicing to everyone if the affair at Melnik were thoroughly investigated, and the consequences of such syphilisation prevented from extending further. Perhaps we shall hear ' something further from the physicians concerned, and then it will be shown that I have not represented the case as being worse than it really was, and that more of the affair is known to me than is perhaps suspected. Such epidemics probably occur more frequently than they are described asdoing. In the earlier times of the practice of vaccination, no one dared to write anything against it, and thus no means existed of obtaining a correct knowledge of conditions like these. The members of the Sanitary Council unanimously agreed to hold their peace as to such occurrences, and their own knowledge of them. I find it necessary to remark of syphilis expressly, that the nature of that terrible malady is very imperfectly understood by physicians. Its nature has always been disguised by the mercury treatment; and as *This case was mentioned by Dr. Hamernik, in 1856, in his reply to Dr. Simon's enquiry, as one of the best authenticated instances of vaccino-syphilitic transmission. It is only in really bad-nay, exceptional cases-where the public have any chance of getting at the facts. Individual cases may occur by pemineda and no one be the wiser. mercury injures the body in a similar manner with syphilis, so it frequently occurs that the physician is puzzled to decide whether certain symptoms indicate syphilis, or the presence of mercury. Like some other diseases, syphilis can kill before its well-known symptoms appear; even new-born children and infants of tender age frequently succumb to it, without its having produced any of the generally recognised symptoms. If the particulars of the Lying-in Hospital, and those of the Foundling Hospitals, were in some degree examined into, and if it be remembered whence a great number of these women come, and what is the mode of life of the majority of them, anyone with the very slightest knowledge of syphilis may conjecture as to the cause of the great mortality among foundlings. One would naturally suppose that a single case of the transmission of syphilis by vaccination, incontestably proved, would result in the immediate abandonment of the practice of vaccination, in the instant withdrawal of the Government grant for its support; and in advising the people as to the dangers of vaccination, and showing the impossibility of any but misguided or self-interested physicians advocating its continuance. Vaccinal Syphilis. The Lancet-of February 1st has a leader on Mr. Hutchinson's paper. We think it advisable to give it in extenso :'<The proceedings at last Tuesday's meetin& of the Medical and Chirurgical Society, possess a great but melancholy interest. They mark, we fear we must say, a new and very considerable advance towards the proof that syphilis may be inoculated during the process of vaccination . Notwithstanding all the assertions which had been so freely made at various times, that syphilis could be thus communicated, there had never been any sound evidence of the fact until Mr. J. Hutchinson, in 1871, related the history of two series of cases, in each of which primary and secondary symptoms had been communicated to several | persons by one vaccinifer. We do not now care to go over the old French and Italian evidence respecting asserted outbreaks of vaccinosyphilis; for we have frequently intimated our opinion that the facts in all theze cases had been put together with such carelessness, and such an utter absence of patient sifting, as must impress any unbiased mind with the danger inyolved in basing upon them any conclusions respecting so serious a question.as March 15, 1873.]  . 357 that of yaccino-syphilis. It was otherwise with Mr. Hutchinson's two series of cases brought forward in 1871. Even on that occasion, the Lancet felt itself called upon to fulfil the function of advocatus diaboli, and to urge every possible objection and difficulty with which the supposed facts could be met,- more especially until the persons supposed to be affected with chancre had corroborated this belief by developing secondary symptoms. But we did not hesitate from the first to admit that Mr. Hutchinson's mode of conducting his inquiries was far more reliable than anything of the kind that had been previously seen; and wo may at once make the same admission respecting the histories which he related on Tuesday last. As the paper and the discussion will be found in another part of our columns, it will only be needful here to point out the principal circumstances of interest in the two series of cases. The first (or, taking in Mr. Hutchinson's previous paper, the third) series of facts, starts from the case of a well-conducted married man, aged 46, who applied at the Moorfields Ophthalmic Hospital on account of iritis, which was at once detected to be syphilitic, as it was accompanied with secondary rash, &c. He had been vaccinated three months previously; but his sore, after healing, broke out again about a month after vaccination, and took on the form of hard chancre (with indolent bubo in aziila.) A fortnight later a copious secondary rash appeared; the iritis occurred a month after this. The yaccinifer was a baby, who, when seen by Mr. Hutchinson (at eight months old), looked healthy, and showed no signs of syphilis except a sunken bridge of the nose: it was a third child, the first two haying died in infancy. It is remarkable that of twelve persons vaccinated from the same baby, only the man abovye- mentioned suffered any harm; it is believed that he was the last of the twelve, and so got, not pure lymph, but either blood or serum newly exuded from the vessels. The second (or fourth) series was brought to light through the case of a lady, aged 45, who applied to Mr. Hutchinson on account of a vascular growth in the urethra, but was discovered to be suffering from syphilitic rash. On inquiry, it appeared that she was vaccinated in May, 1871, that none of the punctures took, but a month later one of them inflamed and formed a chancre, which was followed by rash and iritis, The lady was one of three persons (the two others being her daughters) who were vaccinated at the same time from the same baby. The daughters suffered no harm. A number of other persons had been previously vaccinated from this child, but they could not be traced. Here, again, it is probable that the lady who got syphilised was the last of a considerable series vaccinated, and must have been inoculated with freshly exuded serum, not the original lymph of the vesicle. The vaccinifer was looking well at the time of the vaccination, but afterwards, during its dentition, got condylomata; and an elder sister had condylomata and shght hydrocephalus. We think, then, that the inference from the whole group of cases related by Mr. Hutchinson, must be decidedly in favour of the possibility of communication of syphilis by the inoculation either of the blood of a syphilitic vaccinifer, or of the serum which oozes into the vesicle if the vaccinator be unwise enough to continue to take fluid after the first drop of lymph-the true product of the vaccination-has been exhausted. Not one particle of evidence has been adduced to show that the true lymph can be infected with syphilis; and, as our readers are doubtless aware, the evidence against such a possibility is enormously strong. And even the communication by blood, or by serum obtained after the first emptying of the vaccine vesicle, though it must now be admitted asa possibility, cannot for a moment be regarded as more than a very occasional result of these accidents. We are very glad to observe that Mr. Henry Lee had the sense and candour to point this out forcibly on Tuesday. He observed that, supposing constitutional syphilis to be communicable by blood or serum, it was plain that this was no necessary process, but only happened when the constitution of the person from whom the inoculation was received chanced to be in some peculiar state of ferment which revived the dormant activity of the syphilitic poison. This must certainly be true, or syphilis would be far more widely diffused in the world than it actually is. By these arguments it is evident that we reduce to a minimum the chances of yaccinal communication of syphilis; for the latter event can only take place when all the following conditions are simultaneously present :-(1) A syphilitic vaccinifer; (2) an active condition of the syphilitic element of the yaccinifer's blood; but, at the same time (3) an absence of such external symptoms of syphilis as would deter any commonly upright surgeon from using the subject of them as a vaccinifer; (4) the gross imprudence committed, of employing either blood or the serum obtained after the emptying of the yesicle. It is an absolute impossibility 358 that all these conditions can be more than very rarely fulfilled; and we therefore think that Mr. Hutchinson is gravely to blame for the tone of his remarks in his concluding speech at the meeting. Those remarks, when translated by the imperfect understanding of the non- medical public, will convey a most erroneous impression as to the prevalence of yaccino- syphilis, and will aggravate in a perfectly unwarranted manner the terrors of the laity. And as for the practical suggestions made by Mr. Hutchinson and another speaker, that the date after birth within which vaccination is compulsory, should be altered from three months to six months (or, indeed, as Mr. Hutchinson suggested, to some indefinitely older age), in order that the freedom 'of the vaccinifers from syphilitic taint may be placed beyond suspicion, we must express our condemnation of any such proposal. To those who know anything of the enormous practical difficulties in so handling vaccination as to make it a really efficient prophylaxis against outbreaks of smallpox, we need hardly say that even the extension of time to six months would render compulsory vaccination almost entirely inefficient as a real preventive, and any further extension of the period would convert the whole affair of vaccination into a mockery, and turn our hopes of stamping out smallpox to vanity and delusion. It is a perfectly intolerable risk which we are asked to incur ; and we trust that Mr. Simon will lose no time in denouncing a proposition which is fraught with national danger of the gravest kind, and which is utterly unjustified by the very small number of facts which so keen a clinical investigator as Mr. Hutchinson, with an enormous field of observation at his command, has been able to detect." ~ Acknowledged at Last! The able editor of the S#. Leonards and Hastings Gazette, of the 1st March, has a leader on the recent admission, by the Faculty and their leading journals, as to the transmissibility of syphilis in vaccination. It gives us much pleasure to publish the article in the pages of this journal :- The leading medieal journal, the Lancet, has at last made the important and melancholy admission that the most horrible human disease, syphilis, has been, and may be, transmitted by vaccination. Our contemporary, of the 12th ult.,ina leader, anneunces | this serious and damaging fact. The same number   {March 15, 1873. contains also a highly interesting paper on this momentous subject, read a few days before at a meeting of the Medical and Chirurgical Society. As long ago as 1856 some of the medical replies to a letter addressed by Mr. John Simon (then medical officer of the General Board of Health, subsequently of the Privy Council, and now of the Local Government Board), contained evidence of a most suggestive character as to the transmission by vaccination of the loathsome disease referred to. Mr. Simon, however, and other interested authorities, emphatically and pertinaciously denied the fact of such transmission. The key-note being thus given in high quarters, the profession generally, the acquiescent public, and the press-both professional and lay-joined in chorus to the same strain. The Continent, since the period when the replies alluded to were given, has afforded repeated proof of syphilitic infection by vaccine inoculation. French and German physicians and surgeons in their private practice have again and again noticed and attested the fact. But this is not all. A number of cases at Rivolta and Piedmont were the subject of a professional examination, which resulted in a report affirming the fact of contamination. Since then another series of cases of infection occurred in France, which were also the subjects of medical inquiry by medical gentlemen appointed by the French Academy. In this instance also the verdict was equally pronounced as to positive vaccine syphilitic infection, It required, however, still further evidence before the opinion of the chief State medical officer was avowed to be shaken. The vaccine infatuation during the epidemic of smallpox in our' own country lamentably afforded it. It is now almost two years since Mr. Hutchinson brought before the Medical and Chirurgical Society two sets of cases in which a number of persons had been sufferers by this horrible contagion. The painstaking impartiality and thoroughness of Mr. Hutchinson in relation to these cases were beyond all praise. The proof of syphilitic infection by vaccine inoculation was complete; but in the reported proceedings of the meeting it was stated that Mr. Simon, with evident emotion, expressed too hasty a judgment ; and the Lancet, according to the confession of its | leading article of the 12th ult., felt it right (of course when so large a vested interest was at stake) to urge every possible objection against the damaging proof. Mr. Hutchinson, in his recent paper, has strengthened his previously impregnable position by giving two more series of cases; and the Lancet has, at last, capitulated, by frankly confessing that the fact of vaccine syphilitic infection is now i demonstrated. Errors and abuses, however, generally die hard, and our contemporary and some of his professional coadjutors at the meeting referred, to now seek to show that the danger of contamination is an infinitesimal one, and may be averted by the exercise of judicious care by the vaccinator. The danger, it is alleged, consists in taking blood with the lymph March 15, 1873.]  . operated with, or by emptying the vaccine vesicle, and then employing the lymph and serum with which it is refilled. To this, however, it may be replied that there is no proof, but rather otherwise, that blood mingled with the lymph in any one instance of Mr. Hutchinson's four series of cases. - Supposing even that the product of a refilled vesicle is generally repudiated, who can insure that a reckless operator will not use it? Besides, who can say that a portion of serum may not be mixed with the lymph of an untapped vesicle? Or, even if the vesicle should contain only lymph, what is this but a morbid secretion of the vital fluid, be it tainted or be it not? Equally difficult will it be to discriminate between the syphilised and non-syphilised matter, for in Mr. Hutchinson's cases the taint was not detected by the operator; and as in each of these cases 2 month elapsed before the infection became manifest, the difficulty and the danger are enormously increased. 'The importance of the authoritative admission of syphilitic infection can hardly be exaggerated. The truth in relation to the matter is, of course, unchanged. Not so, however, the position of vaccination. If one disease by which the blood is tainted may be communicated by vaccine inoculation, so may a legion of others. We have thus a confirmation of the allegation of Anti-vaccinationists, and of the sorrowful experience of many vaccination victims. In the presence of this fact, it is not to be wondered at that it was proposed at the medical meeting referred to, that there should be a choice of source from which the lymph is taken, and that the period of vaccination should be six months, or later, instead of, as it is now, three months. Against this latter proposal the Laenect vigorously protests, and expresses a hope that Mr. Simon will not consent to it. But can Mr. Simon prevent its adoption ? for, where now is his infallibility, and where is his prestige 2? Where, too, is the value of the ex parte evidence by certain selected professional gentlemen, with little knowledge and less experience: ef vaccination, given before the late Vaccination Committee ? The whole position of affairs is changed. The dogmatic teaching of the Medical Department is impugned, and its domination, we hope, is drawing toa close. It stands convicted of error on this important aspect of the question, and why may it not be wrong on others? It has hitherto, absolutely ruled the Government, the Parliament, the Press, and the country. Now we hope its assumption will be challenged, and its domination rebelled against. Were the vaccination question a mere medical one, even then we should claim the right of the public, as an interested party, to judge of its merits. But it has been made more than this. The legal enforcement of the operation, the subversion of personal liberty and parental rights, have made it both "a social and political question. Will our legislators, with the teaching of the horrible facts we have treated of, now awake to .this conviction? 'Time was when a Peel denounced the tyranny of compulsory vaccination; when a _ Duncombe and a Mitchell, in the Commons of | 359 England, nobly and persistently warred against it. Are there no true representatives now who will intelligently master the subject, and courageously fight the cause of right and of liberty ?-men who will not compromise the matter by secking to diminish the fines for non-vaccination, but who will demand their entire abolition ; men who will not ask for a choice of lymph, but for a free choice of lymph or no lymph ; men who will not trim by asking a postponement of vaccination for six months, but, if the parent pleases, a postponement for ever ? The Tyranny of Vaccination. "eg ustitia," in a letter to the General Advertiser (a journal published at Paddington), says :- "Prosecution and persecution are, with many not exactly cognisant with the true definition of words, almost synonymous, but in reality they are not so. Prosecution may be more or less legal; persecution never! In the days of non-jurors, Test and Corporation Acts, Arbitrary Church-rate Acts, and many other Acts equally contrary to the liberty of the subject, men were pilloricd, fined, and imprisoned, simply because (for conscience' sake) they objected to subscribe to the one, or to pay to the other. Now, do we not see something in our day of this old leaven of oppression, in the Compulsory Vaccination Act, passed (as it was) by a majority of seven in a full Heuse? Fancy the dictum of seven legislating for twenty-eight millions of the people ! The ratio ad absurdum could hardly be carried farther." smallPox in Birmingham. The return issued by Dr. Hill, the Medical Officer of Health, shows that for the week ending Feb. 1, the number of new cases reperted was 10; vaccinated, 10; not vaccinated, 0; at the infirmary, 18; cases recovered, 8; number of deaths-vaccinated, 3; unvaccinated, 0; total, 3. Comparative return for week ending February 8:-Number of new cases reported, 19; vaccinated, 10; not vaccinated, 0; at the infirmary, 13; cases recovered, 8 ; number of deaths-vaccinated, 2; unvaccinated, 1 ; total, 3. Birmingham Daily Post, Feb. 20. ~ Bridgwater.-W. WU. Roberts was charged with refusing to have his children vaccinated. -The defendant pleaded guilty, and said he hoped the magistrates would mitigate the penalty, as he could not conscientiously have his children vaccinated.-Mr. Salmon: You should not break the law.-Mr. Roberts considered he had already borne the penalty of the law. -The defendant was fined 20s. and costs in eac case.- Bridgwater Gazette, Mareh 6, 360   [March 15, 1873. the Antt-Gacetnator. March 15th, 1878. We direct the attention of our readers to the article by Dr. Hamernik, of Prague. It is worthy of every consideration, because Dr. Hamernik is a man of eminence in his profession, and a clear and correct thinker. Dr. Simon consulted him in 18456, and to his eternal honour be it said, that the German physician then saw through the blunder and mischief of vaccination, not only as to its non-protective power against smallpox, but also on the hitherto debated point as to its being an active agent in communicating other diseases, and in spreading and multiplying disease conditions. Dr. Hamernik, so early as 1856, gaye no uncertain sound when he replied to Dr. Simon's queries; and it must be humiliating to Dr. Simon to think that his correspondent was then really so far in advance of him in the field of medical science, as to be able to detect, and describe in no measured terms, the delusion of vaccination. From 1856, Dr. Hamernik has been the uncompromising opponent of vaccination; he has exposed the hollowness of its pretensions ; he has over and over again dragged into the light of day repeated cases of vaccinal-syphilisation; and he has denounced the cupidity of men who, for profit, uphold a practice which has been a blunder from the first, and yet has held its own for well nigh three-quarters of a century. Our physicians are talking yet about the rarity of such cases as those referred to by Dr. Hamernik, and recently by Mr. Hutchinson ; and they tell us that we are in danger of exaggerating the discovery which has been made. They say the 'true product" of the vaccine vesicle contains vaccine only, and that the poison lines the walls of the pustule; it is in the exudation, or in the blood, in fact, it is anywhere but in the place where it 1s most ; likely to be abstracted either by the careful, or the careless, operator. It is all moonshine, and betrays a lamentable want of common sense. The very ''stars in their courses" are fighting against the vaccinator, and he of all men suspects it least. What a sad reflection, if true--and true it undoubtedly is-that '' syphilis can kill before its well known symptoms appear; eyen new-born children and infants of tender age frequently succumb to it, without its having produced any of its generally recognised symptoms.' have we no syphilitic epidemics? What is the plague of bronchitis but the vaccino-syphilitic taint? Before vaccination was taken in hand by the State in 1841, the death-rate in England and Wales from that disease was about 2,000 per annum ; but it has so increased with each legislative attempt to bring the people within the influence of this abominable rite, that the death-rate from bronchitis-or, in other words, vaccinal- syphilis-has now reached the fabulous figure of 40,000 deaths per annum! Bronchitis is a plague more to be feared than all the plagues of the middle ages put together. Why should it be on the increase? If the disease were not propagated by some unfriendly and unnatural custom, bronchitis should decrease; and so it would if left to itself-only once give up vaccination, and the death-rate from that disease will fall as rapidly as it has increased since 1841. In the hour of his peril, the Psalmist said- 'Tt is better to fall into the hands of God, than into the hands of man."" Man-made pestilences are the worst of all. Of our children, two hundred and fifty thousand perish annually under the age of 10 years-a sacrifice that _ought to satisfy the vengeful monarch of the shades of death! There is ''death in the pot," and ten thousand murders dance on the lancet's point, and still this havoc among the living goes on. Poison, disease, and death, divide the spoil, and the nation pays for it as for a God-sent blessing. If John Simon saw the horrors of vaccination as we see them, sleep would forsake him, until, with the red flag in tl te _ March 15, 1873.} Bublicatieath: Journal 61: his hand, he had warned the people against an } duly protected! Does he say that there is a observance which is devilish in its conception, and murderous in its completion. The Lancet may speak to us with honeyed words, but the '' poison of asps is under: its tongue." That prophet has prophesied falsely long enough. It has said '' Peace, peace, when there was no peace,' and we are not disposed any longer to trust our lives in its keeping. We have been deceived; the Faculty have been deceived; and the State has been the dupe of representations and statistics which have no foundation in fact. We must rouse ourselves out of this torpor, and deal with the question like men whose lives are endangered-whose very existence is threatened. If the vaccinator had been the victim of some religious mania, and had determined, in the innermost ''recesses of a mind capacious of such things," to exterminate the race in whose interests he served, no amount of ingenuity or cruelty could have devised a practice more suited to accomplish his object, than that comprised in this wholesale blood-poisoning of our children ! There is not a single ~principle, or statistic, which the pro-vaccinator has published, but we have been down upon it, swift as a falcon upon its prey, and torn it into shreds before his eyes. Does he say that vaccination has limited the range of smallpox epidemics ?-Our reply is, that vaccination can only produce its kind; and we point him to the epidemics of 1871-2, wherein the mortality has been greater than in any two years of the present century. Does he say that smallpox epidemics are less frequent, and that the mortality is not so great as in the Middle Ages ?-We answer, that the companion diseases of the Middle Ages, the black death, the sweating sickness, and the plague, have disappeared from our midst altogether, and without the interference of any corresponding observance to vaccination; and we tell him further, that the smallpox would have disappeared synchronously had it not been kept alive artificially by the sister rites of inoculation and vaccination. Does he say that vaccination is a prophylaxis against smallpox?- We point him to the fact that 90 per cent. of cases are found bearing the scars of Jennerism, and are greater mortality among the unvaccinated than among the vaccinated ?-We have proved the fallacy -the impudent fallacy - of the argument, by showing that their '' unvaccinated"' are cases which have been certified '' unfit for: vaccination," the scrofulous and the syphilitic; cases, in truth, which they themselves have produced by vaccinating the parents with virus which has been tainted with one or other of these affections, and which, in its due course, descended to the child, and thus prepared it for the first epidemic that turned up to take it hence: the healthy unvaccinated are not to be found either in the hospital or the cottage-the demon of smallpox passes them by. Does he urge that re-vaccination is the completest protection ?-We argue, that if the first fails, the second will do the same, and that the only protection against epidemic influences consists in cleanliness. God will not share His glory with another-there must be no we in this matter; man meddles only to mar God's handiwork. 'The vaccinator is an enemy to his kind ; his rite means extinction, and nothing short of it; the brand on the brow of Cain is his future heritage; he is a murderer; the blood of millions clings to the skirts of his garments! Does he say that if vaccination does no good, it can do no harm?-If so, we reply that the vaccine virus is smallpox matter, unchanged by passing it either through man or beast; that the rite consists in sowing the seeds of smallpox, to be reaped periodically in a harvest of death and despair. Does he say that other diseases are not communicable along with the inoculation ?-Yes, he has said that, aye, for nearly a century and a half; he has recently recanted that doctrine; but is there any credit due to him for the discovery? Not a whit. Had it not been for the pertinacious industry, the clear-headedness of the Anti-vyaccinator, tho poisoning of the nation would have gone on for ages, unquestioned, unseen, and uncorrected ! Does he say that the physician is the best judge in such matters?-We answer, our confidence has met with such a shock, that we shall not easily forget it: the I'aculty have prophesied lies; we have found out the imposture of vaccination, and for the future we mean to use our own judgment. If the Faculty have been wrong i2 one principle, and that, too, a fundamental principle, common sense tells us they may be wrong altogether, and that he is wise who listens to the voice of nature, who abjures the physician and his antidotes, and trusts more to the religion of cleanliness, temperance, and Godliness.. Vaccination is a medical heresy of torrible import. We have got our foot upon.its neck: but how many shall perish yet by the rite, before it shall depart with all its accumulated crimes upon its head, is not for us to prognosticate. Our duty is clear. We must follow up the advantage we have gained, until we have driven away the last vestige of this Jenner-begotten pestilence. Vaccination Tyranny. To the Editor of tie Anti-Vaccinator, Sir,-The good people of St. Helens and the surrounding district have cause for gratitude and thankfulness to the promoters of the late vaccination prosecutions, in that they have called attention to the subject of vaccination ; and it will be a means of inducing parents to take this important matter upon which the wellbeing of their children so greatly depends-into their calm and thoughtful consideration, which may lead to the prevention of much misery and suffering to their families in fature years. Then,s" far as I know, no harm has resulted from them-I speak only for myself-beyond the inconvenience experienced in waiting upon the magistrates ; for some kind unknown friend paid my fine and costs, and the money J had scraped together for that purpose I took home and gave to my wife, to purchase clothing for our children-a very much better investment than leaving it behind to pay court fees, however justly and mereifully impore]- and I was very thankful [ could so appropriate and dispose of the money. The buza that has resulted from these prosecutions doubtless has been heard as far as Whiston, and extended so far as the peaceful village of Huyton, where harmony, love, and concord reign supreme. Coming nearer home, the buzz was more distinctly heard, and even noticed by the medical profession, who considered the sound somewhat disagreeable and unpleasant. Several letters appeared in ths St. Helens Newspaper and Advertiser (thanks to the Editor for their insertion) in reference to and in explanation of this ' unwholesome intruder" into our quiet though busy berough ; and I have been told-though I stay at home and mind   {Mareh 16, 1873. my own affairs-that these letters have been somewhat distasteful to medical practitioners, as exposing a system which they call vaccination, and which some wrong-headed people take to be a curse, and not a blessing, to the nation ; and I am not ashamed to express an opinion that the practice, even allowing the lymph to be '"unco" good, should cease and determine, and the vaccination laws should be once and for ever repealed. These Acts give the Government a great deal of trouble and solicitude, and the sooncr they wipe their hands of them, the better for the good of the nation. Parents who object to vaccination should not register the births of their children: this gives the registrar a clue, and emables the vaccination inspector to prosecute. There is no penalty for non-registration, and the child can be registered at any subsequent period on the payment of five shillings, which will be better than the annoyance of a prosecution; and ere long the people will demand the total and unconditional repeal of these un-English and demoralising Acts. Just one thought more, and it is-that if some benevolent and intelligent gentleman, who has a little leisure time on hand, would, by advertisement or any other means, procure statistics of children who have been injured by vaccination, and take the particulars in the form of a certificate-(an affidavit would have more weight)-let the parent sign it in the presence of two witnesses, and send copies to the Guardians for investigation ; and they failing to do so, send the original to the Local Government Board, London, of which the Right Hon. James ~Stansfeld, M.P., of No. 35, Thurton-square, is the president : and, without doubt, the cases will receive prompt attention. As there are 869 defaulters in St. Helens, and as the magistrates will not approve of more than two a-week being brought before them, no doubt before the list is got through, the Acts will be repealed, when I hope peace and harmony will prevail.-i am, sir, your obedient servant, 1, Windle-st., St. Helens, John Hunt. 13th Feb. Vaccination Squib. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-The following squib appeared on the walls of Cork during the recent smallpox epidemic and re-vaccination mania :- : No wonder that the doctors chase The patients who are willing ; As they, for each successful case, Are sure to for a shilling. . A lady added the following :-- And if, perchance, the case goes ill- Which happens very often- The doctor gets the shilling still, The patient gets the coffin! Yours, &e. Cork, Feb, 28, 1873, March 15, 1873. ]  . 363 Isle of Wight Board of Guardians. The usual fortnightly meeting of the Guardians was held at the Workhouse, Parkhurst, on Thursday, when there were present-Sir Henry Percy Gordon, Bart. (in the chair), and Messrs. Maurice Dear, John Hiller, F. Roach, Henry Waterworth, John Lock, Mark Morgan, W. Dredge, J. Wale, R. H. Smith, E. F. Blake, G. Davies, Henry Mortimer, and 'T'. Mew (Crockers). Discussion on the Vaceination Question. The several vaccination officers presented their reports. Mr. Warren stated that he proposed to take proceedings against Mr. T. Whiteley Bank, Godshill, for non-complian e with the Act. At the last mecting of the Board, Mr. Philips reported that he proposed to proceed again against Mr. N.C. Marshall, of Newport, with respect to two of his children, for one of whom he had been prosecuted previously. Mr. Edward F. Blake said he was, unfortunately (owing to ill-health), unable to attend the meeting of the Board a month ago; but he saw by the papers that further proceedings were proposed to be taken against Mr. Marshall. At a meeting some weeks before, the then Chairman (Mr. Maurice Dear) expressed a strong opinion against the repeated prosecutions of persons who were known to have conscientious objections to vaccination. His remarks were silently acquiesced in by the Guardians then present; and he deeply regretted to find that at a "subsequent mecting they should have been entirely set aside, and a determination evinced to continue what really amounted to a system of persecution. He saw by the Hampshire Ingependent that one Guardian present at the meeting on the 2nd Jan., referred to the case of a man at Selby, who had been fined as much as £6 and costs for six offences under the Vaccination Act; but it would have been more fair and honest of that gentleman if, instead of calling attention to that remote case, he had told them of the many Boards of Guardians who refused to take these proceedings at all. With respect to the particular case now under consideration, Mr. Marshall had been summoned several times, and had paid the fines; but misfortune had come upon him, and he was not now in a position to pay these repeated penalties. He appealed to the Guardians not to proceed further against this person. He had given proof that he was actuated, not by a mere desire to oppose the law, but by a strong conscientious objection to vaccination. 'The tyrannising proceedings they had hitherto adopted against him had effected no good purpose, for he had paid the fines, and his children were not vaccinated; and he was at a loss to conceive what would be gained by further oppressing him. It was never the intention of the Legislature that a person should be repeatedly fined; and when, by a resolution of the Board, proceedings under the Vaccination Act were sus... Morris, of - j pended for several weeks, no mandamus came down compélling them to prosecute, although he knew the Local Government Board were aware of the decision at that time arrived at by the Guardians. Mr, Blake continued his remarks at considerable length; and concluded by moving that no further proceedings be taken against Mr. Marshall for the non-vaccination of these two children, Mr. Maurice Dear scconded the resolution, and echoed Mr. Blake's question -What object was gained by these prosecutions? They could not enforce vaccination. He knew one poor fellow who was fined for non-compliance with the Vaccination Act. He was earning only £1 a-week, and was utterly unable to pay the money; but finding that his objection to vaccination was really a conscientious one, he (Mr. Dear} paid the money out of his own pocket. is knew that Mr. Marshall had the same objection; and he urged the Board to abstain from further proceedings against him. Mr. Blake had referred to some remarks he (Mr. Dear) made at a former meeting, and he should now be glad to give practical effect to them by seconding the proposition. Mr. Lock said Mr. Marshall had never been fined for one of these children, so that it was an entirely new case; and he had sought to evade the law by not having the child registered. Mr. H. Mortimer said Mr. Blake had evidently referred to him for the part he took at the meeting a month ago, and he would explain his reasons for the course he had pursued in this matter. They had, at considerable expense, appointed officers to carry out the law; and if they did not enforce it to the extreme, the whole thing was rendered a nullity, and the outlay useless. They had nothing to do with conscientious objections. The Act made no provision for 'such objections; and how were they to discriminate. between persons who had what Mr. Blake called '' conscientious objections,'' and others who were actuated by mere obstinacy, or a desire to make themselves martyrs? He thought it was clearly their duty to carry out the law. It was only by repeated prosecutions and repeated eonvictions that a gentleman in Mr. Blake's position could be brought to suffer at all, if he refused to have his children vaccinated ; and he therefore thought, that while the law remained as at present, they were bound to continue these prosecutions. The Guardians had no option in the matter. He was not actuated by the slightest personal feeling. If the opponents of vaccination could succeed in getting the enforcement of the law taken out of the hands of the Guardians, he (for one) should be pleased, for he thought their business then would proceed in a much more pleasant manner, and there would be an absence of the personalities which were unfortunately imported into this question. When he supported the prosecution of Mr, Cogger, of Ventnor, not only were personal motives imputed to him there, but letters were forwarded to him full of abuse. He maintained, however, that while he was a member of the Board it was his duty to assist in carrying out the law; and he thought the cases of refusal to 304 comply with that law would not have been so numerous, if gentlemen in the position of Mr. Blake had not set an example in objecting to it. Mr. Waterworth said he agreed with every word which Mr. Mortimer had said. Painful though it might be to carry on these prosecutions, the law was imperative upon the point ; and they would seriously fail in their duty if they failed to enforce the Act. He demurred to Mr. Blake's remark, that the Guardians had ever definitely determined not to continue these prosecutions; and he added, that if other Guardians failed to do their duty, that was no reason why that Board should be equally negligent. Mr. Blake maintained that he was right in the remark he 'had made.-After some time had been spent in examining the minutes, ? Mr. Wale said he was a believer in vaccination, to a certain extent; but he thought it was not fair or reasonable to proceed against the same person a second, third, or fourth time. These repeated prosecutions rendered a man's life a complete misery to him. How could a man get on if the Guardians were continually falling foul of him? He should vote for Mr. Blake's proposition. Mr. Lock repeated that no proceedings had been taken against Mr. Marshall with respect to one of his children, and a new offence was created. Mr. R. Smith said their discussion upon this case would establish a precedent; and he moved that the discussion should be adjourned for a fortnight, and notice given to every Guardian. This was seconded by Mr. IT. Mew (Crockers). Mr. Waterworth objected to these adjournments, as it was simply trifling with the question. Mr. F. Roach asked if the Guardians could entertain a proposition not to proceed with these prosecutions, when the law compelled them to do so? The Clerk: The Guardians can decide not to do their duty, but I do not say what the result would be. Mr. Blake expressed concurrence with Mr. Smith's proposition ; and the discussion of the question was accordingly adjourned to the next meeting. Mr. Blake: Of course, no proceedings will be taken in the meantime against Mr. Marshall. The Chairman: Certainly not. - Hampshtre Independent. Glossop Board of Guardians. The usual fortnightly meeting of the Board was held at the Workhouse on Wednesday, when the following were present :-J. N. Winterbottom, Esq. (chairman); Messrs. L. Darwent (vice-chairman), J. Beeley, W. Smith, T. Robinson, R. Proctor, and G. Eastham. Vaccination. The Vaccination Officer brought before the Board the case of Mr. W. Parker, whose child was still unvaccinated. Dr. Hunt had promised time after time to haveit done; and three weeks since he told   him he would have it done immediately. He should have summoned Mr. Parker many weeks ago but for the promises. Mr. Beeley moved that Mr. Bowdon see the doctor again, and if the doctor said he would do it, he would give him time. Mr. Darwent thought vaccination took better in warm weather. The Vaccination Officer said that as the child was two years of age, it had had warm weather as well as cold. ; The Chairman said if no other member would move it, he would propose that Mr. Parker be summoned. Mr. Eastham seconded the motion. Mr. Beeley moved that he be not summoned ; and this was seconded by Mr. Proctor. Four voted for Mr. Beeley's motion. Mr. Eastham : Is there room for another amendment ? The Chairman said there was not. Mr. Smith held that the question was still open, the amendment having been put as a substantive motion. Mr. Eastham proposed that the Vaccination Officer see both Mr. Parker and Dr. Hunt, and if the child was not vaccinated in seven days, that Mr. Parker be summoned. The Clerk: Mr. Beeley's motion throws it to the next board-day. Mr. Eastham: It is like child's work to do this sort of thing- threatening, and then doing nothing. Mr. Proctor: It is like children's work to vaccinate at all. Mr. Smith : I don't think so. {March 15, 1873. Chairman: We have nothing to do with it, | whether good or bad. It isthe law that we have to carry out. Mr. Beeley: I am the same as Mr. Proctor. I don't think it is any good at all. Mr. Eastham wished to press his motion; but the Chairman said it could not be entertained until the next meeting. The Vaccination Officer named several other parties who had not had their children vaccinated, one only being unfit-Mr. Statham's. The others were -J. Collier, High-street ; B. Miller, Padfield ; John Bowker, Junction ; James Higginbottom, Ludworth; and Joseph Hadfield and Joseph Allsop, Woodcock- road. He had told them they would be summoned if they did not get their children vaccinated. Chairman: I cannot see how you can summon these people now. The Officer said that James Collier was very much opposed to it. He said he would rather give a sovereign than have it done. Mr. Beeley asked if Collier did not say he would have it done fromacow. He (Beeley) would not have a child vaceinated from arm to arm. Mr. Smith thought persons ought to be compelled to comply with the law in that respect. They were endangering their lives, and the lives of their ee March 15, 1878.]  . 365 neighbours, by not doing so. The law was compulsory ; and he believed that they were shirking their duty in not carrying it out. Mr. Proctor said they would then be compelling them against their own conscience. Mr. Smith: We have no right to have a conscience in a matter of this kind. We have only to carry out the law. From what I know of history, it has saved thousands and thousands. Mr. Proctor : That is your individual opinion. Mr. Smith: I have as much right to it as any other person. Mr. Beeley: I believe it has lost thousands of lives. Chairman: All you have got to do, is to obey the law when you sit here, whether it is good or bad. Mr. Beeley: Then you must give them time. You are in a free country; give a man a bit of freedom. Mr. Smith: Freedom is likely to run into license. Mr. Darwent: There is a great deal of medical opinion against you. Mr. Smith: Is there one per cent. ? In a long conversation, a settlement case ag iinst Oldham Union was ordered to be proceeded with, by applying for a removal order. Then the members got back to the old subject. Mr. Smith: It is baby work these things being brought forward, and nothing dene. Mr. Beeley: I am totally opposed to it. Chairman : What has that to do with it ? Mr. Beeley : I like a man to have a bit of liberty; and I do not believe in ruling like a despot. Give a man a bit of liberty, same as we should like for ourselves. Mr. Smith: So long as I know my duty, I shall do it.-Glossop and Hyde Record, March 1. Dewsbury Board of Guardians-This Board met on Friday last week, Mr. Crowther in the chair. Mr. Kew, vaccination inspector, reported that he had visited ninety-four cases which appeared unvaccinated-four he found to have been vaccinated, three were unfit, and two had left the neighbourhood; 85 were still unvaccinated; respecting all of which he had given the usual notice. William Taylor, who was ordered to be summoned at the last meeting of the Board, had been fined 20s. and costs for the oldest child, and 1s. and costs for the youngest. He was glad to say there were no fresh cases of smallpox.-Mr. Fox, in reference to the prosecution of Mr. Taylor, observed that he thought there had been a disposition on the part of the members of the Board not to prosecute a man three or four times for one offence. Mr. Taylor had 'been fined twice before, and the child he was fined 1s. for was the third. It looked a very hard case to 'see a man of unblemished character taken to the -station, chained, to a certain extent, to three prostitutes, and conveyed to Wakefield under such circumstances. He understood there was some animus 'in that case between the man and Mr. Kew. He -would have liked to have heard that the Guardians had voted against his being persecuted in that way. There was a strong feeling outside in the matter: and he thought that when a man had been fined two or three times, the Board might fairly consider that that was sufficient.- No further remarks were made on the subject, and the Board then proceeded to the relief business.- Dewsbury Reporter, Nov. 80, 1872. Vaccination Prosecutions. Dewsbury. Prosecution under the Vaccination Act.-At the Dewsbury Borough Police-court-before Mr. John Bates (Mayor), Mr. Mark Newsome (ex-Mayor), and Mr. J. T. Rawsthorne-William Taylor (joiner), Commercial-road, was charged with having neglected to have his children, George Edward Taylor, born 26th Jan. 1868, and Robert Taylor, born 19th March, 1872, vaccinated. * Mr, Kew, Vaccination Inspector for the Dewsbury district, stated the cases. He said that about six weeks ago he served a notice on the defendant to have his children vaccinated within 14 days. He had failed to comply with the order; hence the prosecution.-Defendant: Mr. Kew has some bad feeling against me. Only a few months ago one of the children was at death's door, and I could have brought a medical certificate to that effect. My conscience won't allow me to submit to have my children vaccinated; because, if anything happened through my so doing, I should think that I had committed murder. I have paid two penalties; and I think that this case is not only one of prosecution, but also of persecution. Mr. Bates: It is not in our power to consider your personal feelings; it 1s our duty to administer the law.- Defendant: My conscience tells 'me that I should nct be doing my duty if I submitted to have them vaccinated.- Mr. Bates: Our consciences tell us that we are bound to administer the law.-Defend- ant: Iam aware of all that. I am not here to set the law at deffance; but I respectfully submit that my conscience won't allow me to have them vaccinated. - After a short conversation between the Mayor and the other magistrates, Mr. Bates, in delivering judgment, said: I am very sorry that you did not take the trouble to procure the medical certificate with regard to your child's health. I quite sympathise with you in your conscientious objections; I have had plenty of them in my time; but this is not the place to deal with them. We are bound down by a law which a considerable majority of the people of England consider to be just; and therefore there is no way to get out of it. In the case of the child George Edward, the penalty will be 20/- and costs; in default of payment, you will have to undergo 14 days imprisonment. In the second case, a fine of 1/- and costs, or 7 days.- Defendant: Iam a poor man; and it is a case of persecution, - Superintendent Millar: You must apply, then, to the Board of Guardians.-Dewsbury Chronicle, Nov. 238, 1872. 366 The Vaccinator and his Wife. (Continued from page 804.) \ CANTO II. Wymn to Vaccina. Hail, sacred Lymph! our life's spring here below ! Say from what hidden source thy blessings flow ; Whether from heel of horse, as once we dreamed, Or from the teat of cow, as now esteemed ; Or from the bristling hog that Jenner loved, Whose virtue he on ill-starred Edward proved*- The grunting monarch of the acorn grove, Whose head the pagan oft on altar clove, In monthly sacrifice to Juno slain, And who still lives to save the British swain? Oh, venerated Lymph! whate'er thy source- Whether thou cam'st from pig, or cow, or horse, Whether imbihed in specks, or veiled in steaks, Ever thy glorious vision on us breaks, Thy splendid name, O Vaccination! we Adore on land, and celebrate on sea: In thee our faith is centred ; day and night, With tuneful lips, thy virtues we recite ; And meekly we with gratitude ayow, The best of benefactors is the Cow! ITe. Oft has it puzzled me to learn What can supernal power discern In me, that through my lancet bright Such wondrous portents rise to sight ; That I, poor erring mortal, full Of angry ignorance, and dull, Should be selected as an agent In the great vaccination pageant, And share the glory and the gain Of easing earth of half its pain. A single touch, and men are saved To life's far end, as once we craved The world's belief; and still we aim . A seven years' safeguard to proclaim. Vain is the search for mightier sign to ancient Scripture's page divine ; Theology herself has failed to sing A prouder miracle in prophet, priest, or king. Our march of triumph and of glory Shall oft be sung, in measured numbers, By poets in statistic story ; Whilst sanitary knowledge slumbers On shelves by dusty bookworms bored, By vaccinating pride ignored. Such science let us tread in scorn; Far grander aims break on our sight, Before us rises bright the dawn Of Jenner's infant-saving might! Behind us les the whirlpool-yawn Of Anti-vaccinating night! *See '' Life of Jenner,'' voli. page 130, where we are told that Jenner inoculated his eldest son Edward with swine-pox matter! See also "' Parliamentary Evidence, 1870." p. 318, where it is acknowledged that a great part of the lymph now in use in the National Vaccine Establishment is the lymph which was originally supplied by Jenner. See also Jenner's own confession, that he supplied the National Vaccine Establishment with lymph from a greasy horse's heel, ("' Life," vol. ii., pp. 226 and 388.) iil Ske:   [March 15, 1873. She. Yet still, my spouse, I ofttimes muse, Whene'er I Jenner's bookt peruse, Whether 'tis better to restrain Our active pen, and merely deign To hint at vaccine odic force, And leave unsung that pig and horse ; On our escutcheon shame it brings, Exposing us to satire's stings ; And each unwise incautious statement, From our pretensions makes abatement. He. The public is born for the shear and the fleece, T'o be loaded like asses, and laughed at like geese ; Yet this lymph from the pig, and this lymph from the horse, = Doth raise in my bosom a thrill of remorse. Both. Full bitterly we feel it, Then let us all conceal it, Lest sacrilegious pen Of enemy should steal it, And ruthlessly reveal it To prying Englishmen. She. "Tis wise to daily circulate, And, oft repeating, inculcate, That infant myriads we save Yearly (by lymph) from early grave. But how, my dear, can this we show In each well-vaccinated clime, Unless the population grow With vast increase through endless time ; Whilst nations who our aid forego, _ Are cut off in their youthful prime ? re. Vaccina never did pretend the human life to lengthen; All that Vaccina undertakes is human life to strengthen. Of this great scourge of human race we lessen the fatality, But never do we undertake to lessen the mortality Of any country under heaven, because we all must die At fated place and fated time; and this is our reply To those who say-that if by lymph so many lives we save, , A lessened mortality should prove it, Betsy brave! She. My Calvinistic darling, Your wisdom is pretence ; You argue like a starling, With sound in place of sense : If babes by myriads we save, Something should prove it, husband grave. He. John Hunter, friend of Jenner's youth, Who questioned vaccination's truth, Avers the smallpox is a '"'healthy disease," Relieving the body from humours that tease. Our plea is, that we hold the power This act of Nature to repress ; That we, for seven years and more, Protect the body from distress, +' Dr. Baron's Life of Jenner: avery valuable addition to medical literature.'"' - Medical Notes and Reflections, by Sir Henry Holland. 2nd edit. p. 404. } Works of John Hunter, M.D., by Sir J, F, Palmer, 7 Vol, iii, Pp, B07, as "y March 15, 1878.] By reproducing on each arm The wondrous might of Jenner's charm. The hope is not beyond our dreams, That, analysing solar beams, And laying solar spectrum bare, We yet may find the smallpox there, See the dread germs 47 situ lying, Unveiled, unblest, untamed, undying, And solve the problems which to science Have hitherto bid stern defiance: Statistics then from furthest stars Shall be revealed to willing ears, Shall lift the robe that Nature wears, And prove that cowpox rules the spheres! She.-That sound, methinks, is of a higher strain: But does not vaccination reach the brain ? The mystic change effected in humanity By agency mundane, Protects the head, the awful seat of sanity, And saves the face from stain. He.-The human reason, Betsy meek, Is naturally crude and weak, And the free play of intellect Hath bounds defined in every sect. The sun, that saves the world from dearth, That giveth sweetest flowers their birth, And fills the chirping birds with mirth, On Sundays goeth round the earth, As children's books now teach, - On week-days standeth still ; while rolls Our circling globe on iciest poles Round the great orb, with all its souls, Converting sunbeanis into ceals, As men of science preach. Thus Mystery is the possession Of each accredited profession ; And Science, Medicine, and Theology, Defend themselves with amphibology. Forbear then, love, to lift the veil, Till now uxtouched by mortals pale, Which hides from venturous prying eye Vaccina's secret history. Suffice it, Betsy dear, to see Believing patients bring the fee. The grave result, I well conjecture, Were we compelled to print or lecture, And unadyisedly explain The seurce of Jenner's milkmaid's pain ;* How many minds it would unsettle Which now produce the precious metal, To recompense the subtle aid Given to those of germs afraid, Which makes them safe as doctor's hat and gloves and coat, From dread contagion's uncertain teuch remote. Vehemently I doubt the right of people at their will In whom disease is incubating quietly and still, To circulate, with clothes unchanged, from house to house unchecked: By such misdeeds as these it is that all our hopes are wrecked Of causing health to rule in homes where doctors ruled before And stamping out the sad effect of laws which we ignore, | (c)"Tife of Jenner," i. 121. He discovered vaccination whilst = " yet an apprentice, a  . 367 She.-When sitting by the solitary fire, Awaiting thy return, with fond desire, From visit late to patient near his end, Or sprightly chat with M.R.C.S. friend, My thoughts oft wander on the law abstruse Which sets me from contagion's action loose. How wondrous, that the silks our patients wear, Such uncontrolled contagiums shall bear ; Whilst clothes im medicinal households worn, In daily visits to our patients berne, However much to fierce infection offered, Have never taken the infection proffered. He.--The law is obvious to all who dare To give to our assertions credence fair; Victoriously we prove the probability Of medicinal insusceptibility, By wise statistics drawn from honest source, And endless figures, which the fact endorse ; That on our clothes infection has no power Equal to that displayed on those of our opponents sour. She.-Our tailors, milliners, and drapers, Our vendors of the daily papers, With what small foresight do they act In epidemic's annual tract Through dingy workmen's dull abodes, Where stench the gloss of life eorrodes ; Where, (if our views have any truth Regarding the complaints of youth) The very air, with ''germs" instinct, Breathes whooping-cough, with measles linked: Whilst, alternating in decades, smallpox and fever make their raids, With scarlatina in their train- The mighty host who count their slain Unswervingly, unasked, uncaring, Unsought, unloved, unbid, unsparing. How can we save the nation, till Such trades be subject to our will, By regulation strict debarred From moving clothes from court or yard, Endangering our protected towns By workman's coats and sempstress' gowns ? "Tis quite absurd that trade should be From our control and order free. He.--Sad obstacles we find in those Who constantly our views oppose, Who from our doctrine hold aloof, Who ask for evidence and proof, And find their best protection woven in due obedience calmly given To Nature's laws decreed by Heaven. Fond hope! for, oh, ye supreme powers, Lucretius has sapped your towers ; Lucretius, our guide, our best Authority on cause of pest, Has moved the gods to distant spheres, Afar from hum-n hopes and fears. Olympian memor-.es o'er us stream, Like shades from half-f:-rgotten dream ; Apollo now no longer draws His silvery bow in righteous cause; The queen of heaven has left her throne, Her temples razed, her peacocks flown ; Even Jove himself we now replace By self-created GERMS, which grace . Our newest theories, and strike The careless and the wise alike,- 268 The Anti-Vaccinator. | March 15, 1873. GeERMs which, in guise unmarked, unseen, For nameless periods oft remain, And spring to unexpected life When stench and sewer-gas are rife, Far from us be the fanatic thought That due protection can be sought In cleanliness of air and drain, And sanitary dictates vain, From fancied law of ruler blest, Visiting dirt and filth with pest, As Anti-vaccinator vile Insinuates with deepest guile ; As though Omnipotence e'er cared For mortals in this world ensnared. We must repeat till we are weary, Such doctrine vitiates our germ theory. She. --The Sunday tract, so oft conveyed From house to house by youth and maid, May on its covers germs convey To thoughtless households on its way ; Unless in public oven baked, In company with books and papers Infected by contagious vapours, Such germs are into crystals caked, As local rulers, wi-e and knowing, Do practise oft, when germs are sowing Their seed in more than usual strength Along the city's breadth and length.* Oft in the leaves of tracts thus lent, The germs of heresy are pent, In close analogy related With the diffusion sad here stated. He.-Oh! Betsy, I almost adere Those grand Inquisitors ef yore, Who, at the call of duty, chose To save the nation's soul from woes Eternal, by the blaze of fire Applied to heretic denier, Whom no statistics could induce To place his conscience in their noose: Our glorious predecessors they, Whose Acts Compulsory outweigh Our feeble trials in their wake ; We use the jail-they used the stake! She.-The words you sing are words of truth ; They mind me of the days of youth, When at each phrase sublime you uttered, My heart and glowing bosom fluttered. That transfer to the secular arm Of men of intellectual force, Divests our conscience of all qualm, And frees our deathbed from remorse. He.-Mcurnful it is to contemplate The growing perils of the State! Great is the evil, wide its course; To check it we have no resource, Till uncentrolled dominion be Yielded to us o'er land and sea, Each house to enter and inspect, Each dangerous persen to select, In whom we find the incubation Of ills infectious to the nation. * Books were '' disinfected" by certain municipalities in the a smallpox panic of 1872. +To "'isolate,''? in medical language, means to "collect together'? in hospitals, For this assumption we are debtors To famed Martinus and his setters. Let power be given us, then, at will To isolate them closely,f till Fach germ zymotic in them we Declare innocuous to be. Salvation will be cheaply bought From dangers by contagion caught, By salaries to our Order given, Who germs, like scape-goats, shall have driven From grateful England's sea-girt isle : Then ruddy youth shall blandly smile, Their souls no longer awed by fears Of death-rate high in tender years ; Whilst we around keep watch and ward, By all admired, by all adored. She.- With ill-concealed aversion, we The probable effect foresee Of the unloved theory that '' germs" Are simply medicinal terms, To hide the fact that untrapped drains In house and yard obstruct our veins, While the dread gases they exhale- (Which render every visage pale Round whom their low and fungoid life, Unseen, but not unfelt, is rife) - Exert an action on the blood For centuries ill-understood, Till time revealed the close connection Of sewer gases and infection. He.- Such views, in poetry or prose, Long may we cautiously oppose ; for sewer gases none need care, Unless our germs lie hidden there. Away, then, with the superstitious Anti-vaccine saw, That pestilence is punishment for breaking Nature's law; The cowpox is a pestilencet among the farmer's kine, But to us it is a blessing which we never will rvsign; It ''miigates' the doctor's fate, and makes his state benign: So, Betsy, close the long debate, and reach me out the wine. + "cowpox has not appeared recently in cattle.' ''The existence of the cowpox in England was not of very long duration. There is gool ground for believing that the disease was the endemic or local remains of a more general epizootic disease.''-Baron's Life of Jenner, vol. i. '*I wish you had been able to have communicated the cowpox to the cow by means of inoculation from a greasy horse's heel."- Dr. Hicks to Jenner, Ibid. Fresh Air and Cleanliness.-In his Domestic Medicine, p. 65, Dr. Buchan says :-' Proper attention to Arr and CLrANLINESs would tend more to preserve the health of mankind, than all the prescriptions of the Faculty. The Anii-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for'6 months.......... 1s. 6d. Do. 12 Ha uerereibieleyatevers 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. ° 3 -_- | Printedgby J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-Vaccinator. and  . Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.8., F.8.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Published Fortnightly, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anét-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. KE All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. No. 24. New Series. April 1, 1878. [Price One Penny. Contents, Page Notes on Passing Events....... Sttere siovelieiel oneksy=s%s 869 smallPox, its Nature and Treatment, and the Fallacies of the Faculty with regard to it.... 371 iRhevEiheony. Of ContasiOmin sv... "cc ascie-s 106 as eae BOUL Vaccinal Syphilis ..... Sfelerescishesoteles# exeresviolevsi averse' sss 872 A Mother's Protest against Vaccination S600 Se On the Article '' State Vaccination a Destroyer'' 374 hep sud bury LrOSCCUbIONS, ..ccc0. ose cee coca 374 Precautions against Disease...... efolo ter rotehetorelsconeis 875 iBicinGOueteule Acct Cl ON fa a/s1e)e1sic'e!si5 6: eya'erei0.s ois a s)o,c,0'e! sere 876 Subscriptions towards the Fines and Costs incurred by Mr. Clarkson, Selby............ 878 Sheffield Board of Guardians ....... alialclors ais 378 Yarmouth Board: of Guardians. "6.000 as n<sis 378 iprescou board, of Guardians: <1. soeseees ecce 378 Vaccination Prosecutions: - Needham Market, Yarmouth, Andover, Chesterfield, Marylebone, Manchester, Walsall, Paddington, ClATMIS more UES Um a shelakatelerers 2 stoicrofolevele " srorave lores cree 379 Anti-Vaccination Lectures recently Delivered.. 384 pore on Pee een oe et is ta - "3. The members of the oe are ciara morphic-they think and act in herds. Mr. Hutchinson evidently regards them in that light; imasmuch as, in his remarks before the Medico-Chirurgical Society, he was very precise in his request that the members of the profession throughout the country should be told that vaccinal syphilis must not only be admitted, but the danger should be provided against by inculcating greater caution on the part of the operator. The Lancet cannot give up the beastly drop of pustulous virus without a shudder. No, it _shrieks-We hope Dr. Simon will not consent ' to defer poisoning our children to a later period -not even so late assix months. Dr. Hutchinson counselled the putting off of the rite till a more ''ondefinite pertod."' Why did he not strike the blow once for all, and urge the discontinuance altogether of an operation which is a disgrace to the medical science of the age? The Lancet will one day see as we see, and be compelled to acknowledge the absolute truthfulness of all the facts and figures we have from time to time presented for the consideration of our readers. It is some satisfaction to reflect that the Anti-vaccinator, however humble may be his lot,. occupies a prouder position at this moment than those whose early studies and educational attainments fitted them, in a much greater degree, to detect and expose the fallacies which surround the observance of vaccination. They who have been called upon to suffer penalties and imprisonment for conscience' sake, have come from the ranks of the poorer classes, saye ina few solitary instances; and their protests have been distinguished by an intelligence that would have been no discredit to men in higher walks of life. Their names''and deeds shall not be forgotten. This Journal, deposited as it will be in all our public libraries, shall be a witness for ages yet to come of the devotion and sacrifices which were necessary to be borne before either the Faculty or the Government could be brought to see that in protecting vaccination,;they were nursinga serpent. whose numerous progeny are fed on the vitals of the nation. We have been called fanatics and idiots. It is our privilege to hand over these epithets to 370 Dr. Simon and Dr. Seaton, who have used them freely and indiscriminately ; and to ask them, for the future, to speak of us in a more tolerant | The past shall be | forgiven, if they will call upon us to assist in | and agreeable manner. the obsequics of vaccination. We append but one condition-that we the last sod hides it from mortal sight, to utter one deep, loud anathema-' Accursed be he among men that shall attempt to bring this >? thing to life again ! The Vaccinator is busy spreading smallpox among the aboriginal tribes of New Zealand. The Auckland News tells us that a certain Dr. Armitage has returned from an inland trip, . having vaccinated 436 natives during his visit. We shall soon hear that the smallpox has broken out, and that the Maories are dying of the pestilence, '"'liko flles" in summer. If the chiefs of those barbaric tribes could have known, as we do, that the natural effect of the physician's art was to propagate the smallpox and not protect against it, the doctor had never returned from that trip; the lancet, twanging from the foeman's bow, had reached his heart ! At a meeting of the Prescot Board of Guardians, on the 12th March, the duties of the vaccination inspector were under consideration, when Mr. E. Johnson (a member of the Board), in speaking thereon, said :-''As far as J am concerned, I do not care how much the vaccination inspection is neglected, for the whole thing is complete trash." It will be remembered, that at preceding Board meetings | complaints had been made about the arrears, and Mr. Dalton (the inspector) was rather hardly dealt with. Do the Guardians know that the Medical Faculty are ''not only almost, but altogether" such as we are Anti-vaccinators? Can the Board prosecute for non-vaccination, when the rite is admitted to be-attended with dangers of such magnitude as those described by Dr. Hutchinson, and reported in the Medical Times, and in the Lancet of February Ist? If they can, they are simply persecuting for persecution's sake; they are 'without excuse," and their proceedings will   shall be allowed, when | | imprison, be condemned by every right-thinking person in Prescot-nay, in the whole country. Mr. Johnson did not err in saying '"'the whole thing is complete trash." Away with it! Guardians and Magistrates who have to administer the Vaccination Acts, cannot much longer remain under the delusion that they | have no option in the matter, and that the one is bound to prosecute, and the other to fine and all conscientious objectors. The Sheffield Guardians are in advance of their brethren, and are moving in the right direction. On the 19th March they held their usual meeting, and in the ante-room there were in waiting several of the inhabitants, who objected to vaccination, expecting es te. called before the Board. Mr. Beal moved that no action be taken against them, and he referred to the admissions of the Faculty with regard to vaccinal-syphilis, and urged that under the circumstances the law ought not to be enforced. At this juncture several Guardians left the room, sheer that '' they had had enough of vaccination." After this, a Mr. Dobb moved that the law be carried out, and a Mr. Robertshaw was found simple enough to second it, but after a lengthy discussion the subject was adjourned for a fortnight, just to afford time to tide over the coming elections. Sheffield must be up and doing. 'There are in all towns-Leeds included -Guardians who will not think upon this question, and will assert the 'brief authority" of their Guardianship by carrying out the provisions of the Act, however much honest and thoughtful men may object to it; whole of their prelinent 19 expressed in four words-'"' It is the law." Such men seldom get beyond the monosyllabic form of reply, and the only way of dealing with them is to exclude them from the Boardroom, or to get the Act repealed. Mr. Mark Atkins, of Wolverhampton; reports to us a case where a poor woman had five of her children vaccinated, and in the end . every one of them perished of smallpox. She has several other children still living, unyaccinated, and Ay are ueaity and strong. This i [April 1, 1873. and the 7 a j : : April 1, 1873. ]  . 37} is simply cause and effect. The five children vaccinated were poisoned with the virus of smallpox. When the smallpox epidemic prevailed, the poison was roused into activity, and the children, one by one, were cut off. The epidemic atmosphere had no message for the unvaccinated, smallpox , its Nature and Treatment, and the Fallacies of the Faculty with regard to it. By Dr. Hamernik. smallpox is a disease more ancient than our historical records; and the analogy of physiology, as well as the experience of ancient physicians and those belonging to the periods of inoculation and vaccination, shows that smallpox has always been one and the same disease, and that the practice of so-called cowpox inoculation was unable to produce any variation from the ordinary pathology of the disease. In this respect the nature of a disease may be compared with that of metals - for example, iron, copper, and silver-in which the metal always retains the same nature, the same hardness, the same specific weight, &c. ; the only difference lies in the value of: the metal. So it is with smallpox, and every other disease. In the ancient records of smallpox , long before the date of imoculation and - vaccination, we find the disease identical in every respect with that of today smallpox appeared at sundry distant periods, sometimes not returning during an entire century; and was at times a fatal, and at other times a mild, disease,-so much so, that an adult attacked by it did not need to go to bed, and children did not even leave their accustomed games. (Huxham.) _I compare this varying severity of the disease with the above-mentioned various properties of metals. Physicians,-and so-called celebrities of the present day, interpret the matter otherwise. They have devised a certain tutelar genius-(?. ¢., Vaccination)-which, in its immeasurable benignity, should modify the nature of smallpox; and by this means think to justify many practical follies, such as Purgantia, Emetica, Mercurialia, and many mute. If at the present day these injurious modes of healing the sick can be dispensed with, it that they can with advantage be dispensed with has been proved by many unprofessional men (Naturarzt), and more especially by 8. Hahnemann, and Priessnitz; and those celebrated physicians to whom I have alluded will soon be obliged to learn the same lesson. As the hardness, specific weight, &c., of metals cannot alter, neither can the nature of a disease change with the course of time, even in the smallest degree, through these absurd speculations. As the physiologist is unable to exercise any influence on the properties of metals, but must take the ore as he finds it, soit is with diseases ; their nature remains ever the same, but their severity, though we are unable to fathom the cause of such variations, is at certain periods fatally great, and at others is less, and can even be so slight that a man may undergo the disease and scarcely perceive that he has it. Thus, the physiologist must take the disease as it is ; and the speculations of physicians in attempting to alter the nature and severity of the malady were, and are, a true misfortune to the sufferers, and savour of the age of Alchymy. Each malady has its special character, according as it is destined to kill or to spare the sufferer: the duty of the physician consists in suitably treating the patient, and in doing his best to avert certain impending possibilities. The rest is in the hands of Providence. The Theory of Contagion. By Dr. Hamernik. | * 3% * * * smallpox is a poisonous malady of the first order. smallpox may be communicated by the inoculation of the contents of the pustules of the blood of the patient, and even before the appearance of the pustules, from the saliva, perspiration, and phlegm; one single puncture can produce a more or less numerous scattered pustulation, Even the inhalation of the evaporation from a patient or his surroundings, is sufficient to communicate the malady. Some years ago, in my work on cholera, I compared smallpox in this respect with syphilis, and I still consider that the comparison holds good, with this exception-which is fortunate for society-that the breath of a syphilitic person is insufficient to communicate the disease. The touch of a smallpox patient, or contact with -tmaust have been so in earlier times as well; and | his surroundings, if the breath be held in, is 372   [April 1, 1873. quite as harmless as the touch of a syphilitic person, or any other sick person; for contact, as such, is quite insufficient to communicate any disease. Contagious diseases, therefore, are such as can be communicated by inoculation of the blood, and it is only in these cases that the inhalation of the patient's breath can communicate the disease. During an epidemic experiments on these points are dangerous, and it is frequently impossible to attempt them. This simple and undisputed method of communicating smallpox throws no light on the origin, duration, and dying-out of smallpox epidemics ; because the epidemic is the mother of the first and succeeding cases, and the so-called contagion of the disease does not explain its final disappearance. If the contagion of the disease seem to us to be irreconcilable with the disappearance of an epidemic, yet we can partly understand that during an epidemic the contagion of a disease can multiply the number of its victims; and from this. theory we can account for the usually long duration of an epidemic, and also the fact that scattered cases of smallpox are not seldom met with during the interval between two epidemics, which we may call the outriders of the ensuing one. smallpox is the only known epidemic disease whose power of inoculation or contagion has been incontrovertibly proved; in all other diseases the infectibility is in the highest degree doubtful, though experiments have been tried, and the authorities have pronounced sometimes for, sometimes against, the theory. It has never been proved with certainty whether scarlatina, measles, typhus, and so on, are infectious in the above acceptation of the term; and those who fall sick of these diseases, are generally excluded from the risk of imparting them to others. Experiments as to the contagion of cholera epidemics have for the most part gone to show that they do not possess that quality ; and the same has been proved of the inoculation of the blood, and those endless occasions of close contact with patients, even when they are dying. This explains the short duration, and complete disappearance, of cholera epidemics. After the first and second cholera epidemics, the proposition that cholera was not an infectious disease was strongly disputed; but later times have brought forward another theory- the fatal one which takes for a type the healing powers of animals, and, without any foundation for the belief, looks upon every disease as communicable, from puerperal fever to catarrh, tubercles, cancer-all, with perhaps the exception of dislocated limbs and broken bones. It cannot be so easily denied that smallpox takes the first rank as a communicable disease, and this fact shows the importance of the duties of sanitary officers; but it.is found that they do not accomplish their task in this respect-that during smallpox epidemics they are inactive, and, continually lauding the humbug of vaccination, leave all else to run its course. There is no cordon instituted, nor is disobedience to prohibitory regulations properly punished : all public places of resort are left without inspection and without instructions. The public, and public instructors, should be so taught that all old people should be protected, and children enabled to avoid the chance of contagion, instead of letting them, as at present, attend the schools with the eruption upon them, and again immediately after recovery, with the germs of the disease still hanging about them. When infection can no longer be spread by these means, the Normal school at least will be excluded, and in others the chances of contagion will at least be lessened. * * * 1% * * Nothing is known as to the cause of the origin and disappearance of an epidemic; the deepest darkness continually overhangs its course; and it still remains a mystery why smallpox, scarlatina, measles, puerperal fever, cholera, typhus, intermittent fever, &c., prevail at intervals. It appears that it is much more difficult to solve this problem, than to explain why iron ore should be found in a certain place, and silver ore in another certain place. The severity and mortality of epidemic diseases seem to become more perceptible as men fall sick in numbers where there are unclean and unhealthy conditions. The epidemic lasts longer in such places, and a larger percentage of fatal cases occur than is the case among those who live under different conditions, well dressed, well fed, and living cleanly and healthy lives. * * * * * * Vaccinal Syphilis. To the Editor of the Anti-vaccinator. Sir, -For many years past the Mediéal Faculty, called orthodox, has puffed up its credit by the aid of the noble Sciences which surround, and might enlighten, the medical art, and has grossly abused the simple faith of the public. As you recently observed, Anti-vaccinators warned them more than twenty years ago that syphilis was communicable by vaccination. With obstinate stupidity they stopped their ears, called the opponents of ee as ee SS sia a see ". ee Oe ee ee April 1, 1873.]  . 373 vaccination fanatics, and cruelly urged Parlament to enforce infant vaccination from arm to arm. Who are fanatics, if these are not? What is quackery, if this be not? The Medical Times and Gazette of Feb. 1 (quoted by you on March 1), fully admits that the Faculty had been wrong; but without a word to denote contrition for the wicked infliction of disease- without a word to induce a hope that there will be less haughtiness and pretension in the fu-. ture. Instead of penitence, there is nothing but grandiloquence. ''Forewarned we are forearmed." As if they had not been forewarned twenty years ago! '' Recognising the possibility of the danger, we are in a position to provide against it." Indeed and is the public to believe in some new device:to make blood- poisoning harmless? '' Knowledge does not bring panic, but confidence." Confidence in what? Does thissentence mean-'' 7'he exposure of our errors does not frighten us, but leads us to assume a sublime self-confidence"? I fear that this is the only meaning. But these vaccinators are only beginning to learn how monstrous is their audacious cruelty. Evidently, to transfuse corruption, which 1s called lymph, into the blood, may as well communicate leprosy or scrofula, or any blood- disease whatever, as syphils. lvidently, a vaccinator who has been forced to admit a single case of syphilis thus communicated, is bound also to admit that no human mind can limit the amount of mischief which vaccination, and especially arm-to-arm vaccination, has done in propagating deadly maladies, and weakening the vital powers of the whole nation. How eminently this school has earned the derisive title, empirics! They pretend to science, but are utterly without faith in the most elementary and certain general principles of physiology. That pure blood conduces_ to strong health, they do not yet admit. They will believe an experiment by Mr. Hutchinson, but not a physiological axiom. Truly did the late Professor Whewell declare, that the great weakness of the English mind was distrust of broad principles. Itis the same school which poisoned our rivers, under pretence of sanitary treatment; and now poisons our blood. . Parliament has repented of the former crime, perpetrated under their persuasion, and surely will soon repent of the latter. But this does not suffice. Members of Parliament must no more subject themselves and the vital interests of the nation to the dogmatism of a single traditional school in medicine, than in religion. Let committees of Parliament take evidence, when wanted, from experts of every class; and on sanitary matters, from physicians of every school, and from practical men versed in such affairs. But let us have no salaried medical officers, irresponsible to the public, to whisper into the ears of public men. The nation has surely suffered enough; and the fanaticism of these pretentious persons has been sufficiently exposed. I trust that your readers in every part of the kingdom will press the matter on the notice of their Pariamentary representatiyes.-I am, sir, yours, &e. N March 28, 18738. A Mother's Protest against Vaccination. The Andover Advertiser, of March 7, publishes the following womanly protest against vaccination :- The Vaccination Question, To the Hditor of the Andover Advertiser. Dear Sir,-If you would have the kindness to insert this letter in your paper, you will oblige,- Yours respectfully, Mary Harvey To the Guardians of the Andover Union. Gentlemen,-Impelled by an almost irresistible impulse, I have taken the liberty of addressing you. I hope you will not think it beneath your notice. I assure you language is inadequate to describe my feelings, when some few months ago my husband was summoned to appear before the magistrates, the first time in his life: still, it is asatisfaction to know it was not for any crime committed, but purely a matter of conscience, And have notmen in all ages suffered for the truth ? I have known many cases where children have appeared healthy until vaccinated, and soon after that has taken place they have sickened and died ; others where they have become one mass of corruption, and where parents and friends have really felt thankful when death has terminated the sufferings of the dear innocents, Surely our Heavenly Father has made us perfect. Then why should mortal man presume to improve on the Great Creator's work? Certainly this subject demands much consideration and thought; and thankful do I feel that so many wise and good men are taking the matter up so earnestly. It is an undeniable fact that vaccination is not a protection against smallpox, but in numerous. cases the human system is more susceptible of imbibing disease after that has been inflicted. The great majority of smallpox patients during: the worst epidemic of this century had been vaccinated; and the places in which vaccination had been longest compulsory-e, g., Berlin-have: 374   [April 1, 1873. suffered far more than where it has been less practised. The fact that twenty-two children in every hundred born, die under one year, surely casts a doubt as to its utility. (See Registrar- General's Returns, No. 92.) Comparing, then, present experience with that of one hundred and fifty years ago, the only logical conclusion to be drawn is-that if vaccination has any influence at all on smallpox, it is to make it not less, but more fatal; and this conclusion agrees with the report of Dr. Grieve, of the Hampstead Hospital, on the practice of vaccinating persons already seized with smallpox-namely, that, after careful experi-ment, he found it '" worse than useless, -I am, gentlemen, yours most respectfully, ; Mary Harvey. High-street, Andover, March 4, 1873. On the Article "State Vaccination a Destroyer." To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-Allow me to object to the article "State Vaccination a Destroyer,' in your admirable number of Feb. Ist. If we were living either in Paradise or in the New Jerusalem, the conclusions of that article might be valid, though its reasons would be poor: the looks and touches of the best among us might heal us there. The writer objects, on principle, to all poisonous drugs, even in the smallest doses; because ''a grain of gunpowder is in its degree as destructive as a whole pound." A grain, in fact (so far as we are concerned), is absolutely indestructive. The rays of a fire warm us; but (according to this writer) it is as bad to warm your hands at a good fire, as to sit on the top of it. It is well known that infinitesimal doses of arsenic, phosphorus, belladonna, strychnine, &c., cure diseases with no harmful consequence, with no poisonous effects, by simply rousing (on the principles of correspondence) the healthy action of the organism against the malady. To throw away this fact is at present fanatically destructive; and such fanaticism does, in fact, sacrifice many lives. Our cause does not require the unwisdom of putting aside the gifts which God allows us through science, in our present impure and needy state. J.J. G. Wilkinson, M.D. Sir W. Holland on Vaceination.-" The increased spread of smallpox of late years, even in those who have undergone vaccination, gives presumption that the influence of this prevention may be lost by time, or the vaccine virus itself be impaired by unceasing use and transmission.''-Medical Notes, 2nd edit., p. 4038.-Acts of Parliament shall therefore restore Vaccina's failing strength, shall revive her decaying charms, and bestow upon her the gift of immortal youth! The Sudbury Prosecutions. The Suffolk and Essex Free Press, of March 12, publishes the following letter from our correspondent, Mr. W. Thurlow. Such letters . as these will open the eyes of the public to the imposture of vaccination.-Hd. A. V. ''The Truth at Last, 1804-1873." To the Editor of the Free Press. .Sir,-The vaccination prosecutions reported in this issue of your paper, indicate that there must be some ground for the opposition evinced not in Sudbury only, but in all parts of England, and on the Continent, and elsewhere. It will be my endeavour to show that this dislike to vaccination is not of such modern growth as some persons seem to think. : Dr. Squirrel, of the smallpox Hospital, St. Pancras, London, in a 'pamphlet published in the year 1805, fortifies his observations by citing 20 cases to prove that the cowpox was no security against the smallpox. He says-''1 am apprehensive that the public will soon have reason to regret that such a disease as the cowpox was ever known, and to acknowledge that so far from the discovery being a blessing it will be a curse, not only to the present but to the future generations." (Page 8.) Mr. Goldson, surgeon, of Portsea, in 1804 expresses himself thus-' That it (vaccination) will at no distant period cease to be hailed as a blessing." (Page 54.) Dr. Rowley, in 1806, gives 504 cases of cowpox failure: at page 7 he says-' The milkers of cows, after dressing the greasy heels of horses, carried the filthy infection to the teats and udders of cows, and thus communicated the infection." Dr. Gregory, physician of the London smallpox Hospital, in a paper read before the Medical and Chirurgical Scciety, March 9, 1852 (see Medical Times, June 26,1852), says-''The idea of extirpating it (smallpox) by vaccination is absurd and chimerical; and on the part of Jenner was as hasty as it was presumptuous. The smallpox attacks the vaccinated." Dr. Bayard, in an admirable "' Essay on vaccination tion," after 35 years observation and experience, says- From the introduction of vaccination, mortality has more than doubled in the ranks of youth." (Page 19.) an offence against nature!" 1 might add considerably to the list, did space permit. I will now give a few instances of the " non-protective'"' power of vaccination in later times, corroborative of the above statements. "'From official statistics, I find that of 155 persons admitted at the smallpox Hospital, St. James', Piccadilly, 146 were vaccinated. At the Hampstead - Hospital, up to the 13th May, 1871, out of 2,975 admissions, 2,347 were vaccinated. In Marylebone, 92 per cent. of those attacked by smallpox were vaccinated." -Sir T, O, Chambers, M.P, And again in page 21-" Vaccination is . Se Te ee April 1, 1873.]  . 375 Mr. Marson, of the smallpox Hospital, in his evidence, says- 'That from 1852 to 1867, the number of vaccinated patients who entered the hospital was 10,671, and of unvaccinated only 2,920." About four-fifths, therefore, on the average of these sixteen years were vaccinated. For the week ending February 25, 1871, 86 vaccinated persons died of smallpox in London; March 11, 1871, 74. In the Orphan House at Bristol, 293 cases of smallpox, and all vaccinated, is another illustration of the '" protection" afforded by vaccination. At last, the two leading medical journals have acknowledged the danger to which persons are liable who undergo the "protective" rite. The Medical Times and Gazette, Feb. {, 1873, in a leading article on '* Vaccinal Syphilis," called forth by the disclosures of Mr. Hutchinson, F.R.C.S., at a meeting of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, Jan. 28, 1873, remarks :- 'Heretofore, as we have said, it has not been admitted that, if due care be taken, syphilitic infection by vaccination is possible. specially has this been urged by the crown officers when asked to encourage heifer vaccination, The facts now before the public will tend to rouse them, if they have not been roused already, from the false security into which they have been lulled. And, as was stated at the meeting, itis plain that our compulsory laws cannot be maintained unmodified. It is true, that the number of instances yet before us is small, but we also well know the manifold inducements to keep these secret. In point of fact, nearly all the cases reported have crept out accidentally; and if a full and searching investigation were made-could we for the time being create a medical " Palace of Truth"'- we doubt not but that many more facts might be acquired." "Tt is not fair to subject healthy infants to the risk of vaccination from others, which, though healthy at the time, may subsequently show signs of inherited taint."' * * * UG is not fair to subject people's children to risks such as those which vaccination-syphilis implies, with no alternative save to go to prison. The risk admitted, the option must follow, or the law will fall to the ground," | The Lancet (Feb. 1, 1873) also gives a report and "leading article'? upon the same subject, admitting the truthfulness of Mr. Hutchinson's statement. Allow me to tender my sincere and hearty thanks to those kinds friends (nearly 50) who responded to my appeal on behalf of the two poor men (who were fined on Thursday last, amounting with costs] to £2. 33.), who were saved from a woek's imprisonment, and from being classed and lodged with criminals: most persons will admit that the criminal class are already too large a body to need augmentation from Anti-vaccinators. Thanking you for the courtesy shown, not only to myself, but others, in this worldwide question,-I remain, respectfully ypUres W. Thurlow. Friar's-street, Sudbury, March 11, 1873, Precautions against. Disease. = By Mr. A. Power, Chief Commissioner of Poor Law, Ireland. The Skin. There's a skin without and a skin within, A covering skin and a lining skin; But the skin within is the skin without Doubled inwards, and carried completely throughout. The palate, the nostrils, the windpipe, and throat, Ave all of them lined with this inner coat, Which through every part is made to extendLungs, liver, and bowels, from end to end. The outside skin is a marvellous plan For exuding the dregs of the flesh of man; While the inner, extracts from the food and the air What is needed the waste in his flesh to repair. While it goes well with the outside skin, You may feel pretty sure all's right within ; For if anything puts the inner skin out Of order, it troubles the skin without. The doctor (you know) examines your tongue, To see if your stomach or bowels are wrong ; If he feeis that your hand is hot and dry, He is able to tell you the reason why. Too much brandy, whisky, or gin, Ts apt to disorder the skin within ; While, if dirty or dry, the skin without Refuses to let the sweat come out. Good people all, have a care of your skin, Both that without and that within ; To the first you'll give plenty of water and soap, To the last little else beside water, we'll hope. But always be very particular where You get your water, your food, your air; For if these be tainted, or rendered impure, It will have its effect on your blood, be sure. The food which will ever for you be the best, Is that you like most, and can sooneat digest ; All unripe fruit and decaying flesh Beware of, and fish that is not very fiesh. Your water, transparent and pure as you think it, Had better be filtered and boiled ere you drink it, Unless you know surely that nothing unsound Can have got to it over or under the ground. But of all things the most, I would have you beware Of inhaling the poison of once-breathéd air ; When in bed, whether out or at home you may be, Always open your window and let it go free. With clothing and exercise keep yourself warm, And change your clethes quickly if drenched in a storm ; For a cold caught by chilling the outside skin, Flies at once to the delicate ning within. All you who thus kindly take care of your skin, And attend to its wants without and within, Need neyer of smallpox feel any fears, And your skin may last you a hundred years! 376   [April 1, 1873. ' _ ; 4 gested a more rational conclusion, or supplieda The Antt-Waceinator, April 1st, 1873. Nie le) sid MRS gic my SOC bar tear ok gy Ik invited the members of the Faculty of that town to come forward and reply to the accusations of the Anti-vaccinators ; but these spirits of the ''yasty deep" did not come at the Bishop's call, nor has the spirit moved them yet to proffer a reply. Why not? Why, for the simple reason that Dr. Hutchinson has turned ''Queen's evidence," and has confirmed, in the most conclusive manner, the truth of the accusation, that vaccination is a blood-poisoner of the worst type! The leading medical journal* (the Medical Times and Gazette) has turned Anti-vaccinator all of a sudden, without haying given the Faculty a moment's notico ; and the Faculty, like another '' Bones," may well be excused for asking-'' Where are we now f" Where, indeed! Who offers an answer? In what a bitter dilemma the yaccinator is involved! Who can extricate him out of the difficulty ? What power on earth can cut the chain with which Dr. Hutchinson has bound him ''hand and foot"? The Medecal Times and Gazette, unlike our contemporary the Lancet, sees the whole difficulty at a glance. Vaccinal-syphilis once admitted, ''the option must follow, or the law must fall to the ground." No Anti-vaccinator could have sug- * We say the "leading journal," because in this matter its utterance is clear and honest, whilst the Lancet fences with the position, and by an attempt to diminish the threatened danger of vaccinal-syphilis, robs the argument of Dr. Hutchinson of halt its force. The Lancet is true to its hereditary obstinacy- it never believes anything that tends to lessen the authority of 'Old Physic," until, by sheer force of argument and fact, further opposition would expose it to ridicule and contempt. Yet the Lancet fears the laity; and well it may, for in this contest the laity are preparing for fresh victories-one triumph whets the appetite for another ! The Lancet must change its name very shortly, or people will learn to avoid the practitioner who trades under the auspices and authority of a journal that clings to a title so Objectionable and sanguinary ! | disputed, and the boasted virtues more logical deduction. And, as if that fell short of the mark, the journalist adds-and we hope our friends will catch the inspiration of the sentiment, and send it to the remotest corner of the earth-'"' It is not fair to subject healthy infants to the risk of vaccination from others, which, though healthy at the time, may subsequently show signs of inherited taint ;" and again-'' It ts not fatr to subject people's children to risks such as those which vaccination-syphilis implies, with no alternative save to go to prison." Whose sentiments are these? They are .ours; we wrote them in similar phraseology twenty-five years ago, and we have been preaching from the same text ever since; and at last our enemies have ''subscribed their hands and seals" in testimony thereof. What has the Bishop of Manchester to say to us now? He urged that our facts were strangely like the truth; he said the people were very likely to become Anti-vaccinators, if no hand were stretched out to save them in their time of need; and he sent for Balaam to curse those whom he regarded as the enemies - of the people-the enemies of the Lord; but 'the prophet has blessed us altogether,-yea, '' these three times"; aye, and he shall bless us for thirty-three times yet to come! For the Bishop of Manchester we have no other feelings than those of respect, mingled with pity. Respect for his position and attainments, and pity that he should pin his faith to the garments of the vaccinator, instead of inquiring for himself into the truthfulness, or otherwise, of the facts and principles we have so consistently advocated, and which are now subscribed to by the leading journals of the Faculty. The vaccinator is struck dumb in the hour of his triumph. He vainly thought by his lymph, his cicatrices, and his prophylacties, to arrogate to himself the attributes of divinity, and to say to the smallpox plague-'" Hitherto thou shalt come, but no further," when, lo! the deceiver is exposed, his pretensions are of the April 1, 1873.]  . See vaccine are proved to be the means of conveying the germs of other diseases more to be dreaded than the smallpox itself! What a commentary upon the couplet of Shakspeare :- "*Trust not the Physician, His antidotes are poison." We tell the Bishop, and all those who think with him, that the antidote of Jennerism is an imposture. smallpox, like the rest of the zymotic class of diseases, is the result of the persistent infringement of nature's laws; it is the consequence of a disregard of the simplest sanitary regulations; and there is but one safeguard against disease conditions, and that is in cleanlmess and in temperance, regarding these terms in their widest signification. Antidotes are so many quackeries of the most barbaric and superstitious eras of our country's history. Disease\is the fruit of disobedience; and we must learn henceforth that to obey is better than sacifice-that cleanliness is next to Godliness. The epidemic which has recently passed though the land exacted the heaviest tax from towns which are proverbially filthy and unclein, and claimed not a victim from places whih are salubrious and healthy; and in every toyn and village where the smallpox visited thepeople, he selected the most unhealthy disticts, the narrow strect, the courts and alleys, vhere the weak and the unclean congregate tyether, and where the children are ill-fed, badly clothed, and suffering more or less from hebditary and communicated diseases: and wl) is there that dares to shut his eyes to lessons like these? Vaccination is a lie; itis avileand unclean observance; it is opposed to ever principle of science, and to every known piysiological law; it is based upon falsehood, ad supported by fraud. 'lt ig. nob fas." says the Medical Times, "to subject healhy infants to the risk of vaccination from others, which, though healthy at the tin, may subsequently show signs of inherited taint. "lt Is" net. fair to infect our childt) with syphilis, scrofula, pheumonia, and bynchitis ; and yet this \ \ \ \ \ is the work of the yaccinator every day - he profits by it, he lives upon it; and although the mischief of vaccination has been brought to the knowledge of the Medical Department of the Privy Council, the edict has not gone forth- "Stay thine hand, it is enough." Hnough !- neyer enough while there is a single copper left in the Exchequer! Howgthe greed for gold perverts the judgment, and, blinds; the eyes! These '' vested interests' obstruct the path at every step-they mect us at every turn. Our first duty is to carry our grievances into Parliament, and not to rest satisfied until we have one or two representatives there who thoroughly understand the subject in its every aspect, who will walk in and out amongst the elected of the people, and expose the misdoings of that thing which is at once the nation's curse and the nation's crime. There is a fearful responsibility resting upon the heads of such men as Dr. Simon, Dr. Seaton, Dr. Marson, and Dr. Hutchinson! The latter gentleman has spoken half the truth, and it may be another two years before he will finish the sentence; he has established the existence of vaccinal-syphilis, but how long shall we wait until he reports upon vaccinal- scrofula, vyaccinal - pneumonia, vaccinal -bronchitis, and all the other vaccinal-plagues that afflict the nation ? As for the Bishop of Manchester, and his compeers, we leave them to their reflections. If vaccination never came to its end until such men as these were converted to our views, the rite would hve for three gencrations or more. Our trust is in the people-in the common-sense of the nation; and with regard to vaccination, the verdict has been proclaimed - 'Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?" It is a sturdy arm that wields the axe, and after each blow a passion or a prejudice is cut off; and this upas tree, whose roots have spread into every land, shall yet be overthrown, and men shall stand aghast when the tale is told how they perished who trusted to it for shelter ! ee ee 378 Aen.   Subscriptions towards the Fines and Costs incurred by Mr. Clarkson, Selby. eis) (Ok Amount already advertised ... ....... 4 9 0 5 Se Rt" an ee A dere eae Sm en nea 0 10 -0 OSCDM VALOR ci, wieaerea or eecm eae "artes 010 6 4 ORAL sc the cates rest Macig nalts cede tate @ 5 0 my Wi an A ola ar atn wm nacelenewie ees 0: .b Q Wes BOW teu: teeeatent,. aagae tes 0 26 Fe be RONG cies nic eed sate eooeaat nee 0 2.6 El eniy MOMTIBOM 3.2 snc Fa ad aoa cSenscads @ 2b has MEO Ghar ah oar ever 20 oteste hci Rea stasuiacleen ace QO 1D HON? ner Mev. WHR ei ides H 2a 8 The above contributions have been paid to Mr. Clarkson; The list is now closed. Mr. Clarkson wishes us to eonvey his thanks for the timely aid thus afforded him. Sheffield Board of Guardians. The ordinary weekly meeting of the Sheffield Board of Guardians was held yesterday, at the Workhouse, Kelham-street, under the presidency of Mr. Searle (chairman). The other members of the Board prigent were Messrs. Stacey, Widdowson, Pecl, Beal, arker, Barkworth, Wood, Shipman, Scorah, Fox, and Dobb. The Vaccination Question.-On Mr. Spencer, the clerk, stating that several persons who had been . requested to attend before the Board for neglecting to have their children vaccinated, were waiting in the ante-room, Mr. Beal rose and moved that no action should be taken in the matter. He said some statements had appeared in the Medical Times and Gazette, which showed that vaccination had really communicated a frightful disease to children, and if that was the case, he did not think-they ought to enforce the law. Several Guardians here left the room, remarking that they had had enough of vaccination. -Mr. Dobb moved, and Mr. Robertshaw seconded, that the Board continue to carry out the law. - After a long discussion, the subject was adjourned for a fortnight.-Shefi-ld and Rotherham Independent, March 20. Yarmouth Board of Guardians. Tho weekly meeting of the Board of Guardians was held (as usual) on Friday afternoon, at the Tolhouse Hall. There were present-Messrs. F. Palmer (chairman), J. Rivett, J. A. Norman, J. Woodger, J. H. Norman, J. Clowes, and J. I'. Neave. The late Vaccination Prosecutions. The Clerk stated that he had applied to the Mayor with reference to the costs in the late vaccination prosecutions, and that his Worship had declined to allow the expenses of witnesses, which prosecutiens was unsatisfactory, had always hitherto been granted. He had asked for the small fine of 1s. in each case, presuming that the usual costs would follow; but the Mayor would only allow the court fees. Whether the other magistrates endorsed this ruling of the Mayor,he was not at present prepared to say. The Chairman said it could not be expected that the surgeon, registrars, vaccination efficers, &c. could attend the cases at the police court unless their expenses were paid. He thought the present position of matters in connection with vaccination The Guardians did not desire harshly to punish poor people; but if persons persisted in defying the law, they must expect to suffer for it. The Clerk thought the course adopted was, in his opinion, totally unprecedented. It was always usual to allow the costs of witnesses in prosecution cases. - Yarmouth Independent, Feb. 15. Prescot Board of Guardians. The usual fertnightly meeting of the above Board was held at the Board-room, Whiston, on Thursday last. Present-Messrs. 8. Marsh (in the chair), J. Birchall, H. Fogg, W. Johnston, W. Smith, J. Kenwright, P. Longton, W. Molyneux, F. Birch, R. Brown, W. Tyrer, A. J. Cowley, R. Leigh, R. Barrow, J. Ranson, W. Morton, P. M'Kinley, J. Penketh, W. Stockley, R. Swaine, E. Syder, C. Wilock, J. Ball, P. Gregory. The Vaccination Inspector and hs Duties. The report of Mr. Dalton, vaccinaton inspector, showed that during the fortnight he Jad visited 135 children, with the following results:-Vaccinated, 25; unfit, 20; dead or left, 8; unvaccinated, 82. Since last March there were 2,171 btths registered, and of that number there were stillliving, and not returned as vaccinated, 801. Mr. M'Kinley called attention tothe fact that the inspector had only visited 135 pesons in the fortnight, while persons collecting raté would call upon a thousand in the same time. Mr. Barrow agreed that thenumber was too small. Mr. M'Kinley said he was sur the inspector did not work half his time. Mr. Barrow said it was an bominable thing to make such a return for a fortnint. _ Mr. Dalton was called in to;ive an explanation. In reply to questions, he saidthat he called upon people having children liabl to vaccination, and warned them verbally to get ; done. Mr. Birchall held that a whal notice was a bad system. There should be a Ook with counterfoils ; and notice be given in a proer manner. Mr. Dalton said he coul not visit 150 or 200 persons in a fortnight, if hhad the notices to make out. In reply to the Chairms, he said he kept a diary, which showed each day's ork. (April 1, 1873. April 1, 1878.]  . - 379 Mr. M:Kinley wished to know how many Mr. Kitchen had visited in a fortnight when he held the office. The Clerk said he could ascertain. Mr. Barrow said there were 400 children which ought to be vaccinated, and it would take a long time to look after them at the rate of twelve per day. He did not know how the inspector would do if he had to collect the income and property tax, and not only visit 150 persons in a day, but give counterfoils and receive money. Mr. Ranson begged it to be remembered that in the township of Eccleston thea inspector would have to go, perhaps, four miles from one case to the other. Mr. Barrow replied that it was quite possible he would have no case in all the rural part of Eccleston. The Clerk said there was no doubt they were going backward sadly; and when the inspector came -down from London, it was probable he would have something to say about the matter. The question was then postponed till next meeting, Mr. M'Kinley asking for a return to be produced of Mr. Kitchen's work while vaccination officer.-S¢. Helens Advertiser, Jan. 18. Vaccination Prosecutions. Needham Market. Feb. 26.-Before the Rev. F. Steward (chairman), Rev. J. E. L. Schreiber, and Major Phillipps. The Vaccination Question. - The Rev. George Cardew and the Bench. The Rev. George Cardew, Helmingham, was charged by Mr. C. G. Hayward, vaccination officer to the Bosmere and Claydon Union, with disobeying an order for the vaccination of two of his children, made on the 29th January. The Clerk (Mr. F. Hayward) having read the information, asked Mr. Cardew if he had complied with the order? ~ Mr. Cardew said he had been summoned there that day for an alleged breach of the law, and the magistrates had compelled him that day to break the law; indeed they had broken it themselves. He was a clergyman of the Church of England, the Established Church of the land; and by the laws of that Church he was commanded on that day to have Divine service in his church. A special service was appointed for Ash- Wednesday morning, but he was directed to attend court to-day; and, for the first time in his life, he had no service on Ash- Wednesday morning. The Chairman said this was not relevant to the case. Mr. Cardew must confine himself to the information. The magistrates had nothing to do with anything else. Mr. Cardew said he would confine himself to the complaint made against him. He had not had his child vaccinated, and never, so long as he lived, 'would he consent to its being done. | out the Acts that were made. | to do with private opinions; they must inflict the The Chairman said the magistrates did not want to hear those remarks. He thought them very injudicious, and was sorry to hear them made. Mr, Cardew was not confining himself to the complaint, and he must requcst Mr. Hayward to ask im, in plain English, whether he had complied with the order ? . The Clerk (to defendant): Are you guilty or not guilty ? Mr. Cardew: I cannot be prevented from speaking the truth. I have inmy hand- The Chairman : It does not signify what you have in your hand. Mr. Cardew: I say it does signify-a great deal. The Chairman: You must make an answer to the charge made. Mr. Cardew: I have a right to speak. The Chairman: No; you have not a right to speak, except in answer to the Clerk, to say whether you have complied with the order or not. We must. have an answer; that is the only way we can proceed. If we enter into a discussion about vaccination, it may last a week. Mr. Cardew said he had answered the question. He had not had his child vaccinated, nor did he intend to have it done. The Chairman: That is sufficient answer. Mr. Cardew said he had a right to give his reasons, for, since his last summons, discoveries had been made by the medical profession which would be fatal to the Compulsory Vaccination Laws. The Rev. J. HK. L. Schreiber said they had nothing whatever to do with the medical profession. The Chairman said they did not care for the opinion of all the medical men in the world. The magistrates could not help themselves. So long as the law was as it was, it must be complied with. It was not for the medical men to select what Acts of Parliament they liked; it was their duty to carry They had nothing peralty. Mr. Cardew: This is how the people of England are prevented from hearing the truth. When persons come forward to speak the truth, they are stopped. I will only read a few lines- The Chairman : We don't want to hear it. Mr. Cardew: I will publish it all over the country. There will be thousands and tens of thousands read it. The Chairman said the defendant was quite welcome to put it into every newspaper in the kingdom if he pleased, but they did not want it there; it had nothing to do with them. j Mr. Cardew: May I ask the reason for sending for me here, if I may not speak? The Chairman asked why the rev. gentleman had not paid the fine? | Mr. Cardew: The fine was mever inflicted. You are forgetting what you did-forgetting your duty altogether. The Chairman said he would not allow those remarks from, Mr. Cardew, or anyone else, whilst he ' 380   [April 1, 1873. sat on the bench. He had no objection to retire, but he would not sit there and hear them. Mr. Cardew repeated that the fine was never mentioned. The Chairman said he might have been mistaken ; but he thought it was stited if the order was not complied with, 20s. fine and 8s. costs was to be paid. The fine would not be inflicted until the 14 days of the order for vaccination had expired. The Clerk said that Mr, Cardew on that occasion asked if he might pay the fine at once. Mr. Cardew repeated that the amount of fine was not mentioned. The magistrates whispered amongst themselves. He asked if he could pay at once, and was told that he could not. The Chairman quite thought defendant understood what the fine was, as he asked if he was to be dragged up there again; and he (the Chairman) told him he' could pay it to the police. Mr. Cardew said he understood, upon legal authority, that he ought to have been summoned within nine months after the child was born; and that that being the case, the present proceedings were illegal. The matter was under investigation at present, so the magistrates would prepare to be defendants in the cause. No one came forward on the previous occasion, and said-' Mr. Cardew, you are fined 20s." The Chairman: You do not understand. Mr. Cardew: I beg your pardon; I have as clear a head a8 any man in England. I have too eleara head for vaccination. The Chairman: I am glad you think so; there may be two opinions on that subject. Mr. Cardew said the Bench would remember that he forced the 8s. costs upon them on the previous occasion ; for they were very much disinclined to take it. More conversation with regard to the subject of the fine took place; but it was a repetition of what is given above. 'The Chairman said Mr. Cardew would now be fined 20s., and the costs 7s. 6d. Mr. Cardew: Then you still refuse to hear the reasons why I decline to have my child vaccinated ? The Chairman said the magistrates did not think that the place to hear them. Mr. Cardew: What would you have done if I had had a solicitor? Would you have refused to hear him? The Chairman answered in the negative. Mr. Cardew: Then why object to hear me? The Chairman explained that they should refuse to hear a 'solicitor if he gave the opinions of London doctors. Mr. Cardew said that the Medical Times had admitted that the Compulsory law must fall to the ground. The Chairman thought that when that was the case, it would be soon enough to refuse to act up to it. Had it not been for the position Mr. Cardew held in society, steps would have been taken by the Board of Guardians in the matter much earlier. Mr. Cardew: Can you legally take them now? The Chairman believed they could, and explained that the Act of Parliament appointing a vaccination officer to enforce the vaccination laws, was of very recent date. Mr. Cardew said he was in correspondence with those who knew the subject from beginning to end. He thought it very unwise on the part of the magistrates not to hear his reasons, instead of taking up time in the discussion of the fine, which he would have paid then and there had he known the amount. The Chairman again explained the reason why the. fine could not then have been received, and repeated that he thought the defendant must have known the amount. Mr. Cardew asked how it was possible for him to know the amount of the fine, when the penalty ranged from ls. to 20s. P The Chairman did not think the public would have been satisfied if the full penalty had not been inflicted in the present case. He thought defendant fully understood that that was their decision. Mr. Cardew: I could not possibly think so. Mr. Schreiber thought the defendant was showing avery great want of common sense that morning. He was setting the laws of the country at defiance, and setting a bad example to the people. He (Mr. Schreiber) only wished the fine was £5 instead of £1. Mr. Cardew: That is a strange remark from a magistrate. The whole thing is a mere discussion as to whether the magistrates named the amount of fine which they intended to inflict, but could not legally do so on the first day. Mr. Schreiber hoped that the discussion would | soon end; if not, he should leave the room. The Chairman again repeated that he thought the defendant knew what the penalty was; and the Clerk told him it would now be £1, and 7s. 6d. costs. Mr. Cardew : When am I to pay it? The Chairman: Now. Mr. Cardew : To whom? The Chairman: To Mr. Hayward. Mr. Cardew : If the poor are fined, I will be fined. I throw in my lot with the poor. The Chairman: I am sorry that such an example is set to the lower orders by one in your position. Mr. Cardew: Iam bound to obey God rather than man. (c) The Chairman: You are bound to obey the law of the land, so long as it is the law of the land. Mr. Cardew: Never, so long as it is contrary to the law of God.-Jpswich Advertiser, March 1. Yarmouth. On Monday, Mr. F. D. Palmer (Clerk to the Guardians) was present at the Police-court to support informations which had been laid against some eight parents for not complying with the Vaccination Act. The first case heard was that of Mr. Edward Harrison, who, it will be remembered, was fined a short time ago for refusing to have his child, Lucy Jane Harrison, vaccinated. Mr. Palmer now asked a 1 7 April lS 1 a6) for a second order against the defendant, to compel him to have his child vaccinated. Mr. Dawson, Mr. Burton (vaccination officer), and 'the Registrar, were called to prove that the child had not been vaccinated. The Defendant, in reply to the Bench, said his child was a long way from Yarmouth, and he could 'not have her vaccinated. He did not refuse to have 'her vaccinated in a spirit of opposition; but he had 'had one child vaccinated who had ever since been in ja very bad state of health, and his wife, in attending upon the child, had been brought into a very bad state of health herself. He had a duty to his child jas well as to the State, and as he had one child 'who had suffered frightfully from vaccination, he idid not wish to subject another child to the same treatment. The Mayor asked Mr. Harrison whether he had 'any other child who had suffered from vaccination. Mr. Harrison replied no. The Mayor said he was sorry to see Mr. Harrison there; but they had only one duty to do, and that was to carry out the law. Mr. Blake asked Mr. Harrison if he had any proof that the ill-health of the child he had referred to was tthe result of vaccination. Mr. Harrison replied that he took the child to (Mr. Erasmus Wilson some time ago, and before he had said anything to him about the child having Ibeen vaccinated, Mr. Wilson said- 'This came out after vaccination"? ; and he told the defendant, in weply to a question which he put, that the chill's ill health was caused by vaccination. The Mayor asked if there was not some opposite statement made as to the child's ill health on a previous occasion. Mr. Palmer said he did not know ; been so during Mr. Cufaude's time. The Mayor observed that Mr. Harrison's case was (tm) precedent for a good many others who had an 'objection to their children being vaccinated. 'There could not be a doubt about the benefit arising from waccination; and the Bench was bound to carry out the law. Mr. Harrison said he was vaccinated, but the first time he came into contact with a person who had had the smallpox, he caught it. He had now a child who suffered dreadfully from vaccination. In reply to the Mayor, Mr. Harrison said he had had his other children vaccinated (except the one in iquestion), but they did not suffer from it. The Mayor said, perhaps the other child would wot. Mr. Harrison said if the child were vaccinated and anything happened to it in consequence, it might be the death of his wife. He considered he had been treated very harshly by the Guardians. It was mothing less than a spirit of persecution, when three lays after he had paid the fine in the first case, npplication was made for a second summons against 'him. Mr. Blake asked Mr. Harrison if he had had the opinion of other medical men _ besides Mr. it might have  . 381 Wilson as to the cause of his child's ill-health. It would be some satisfaction to have the opinion of others. Mr. Harrison said he had had the opinion of other medical men, and they stated that vaccination was the cause. Mr. Spelman: Who is your own medical man ? Mr. Harrison: Mr. Aldred. Mr. Spelman: Does he think vaccination would affect the child ? Mr. Harrison: I have not asked him. Mr. Spelman : Does he think vaccination affected the other child ? Mr. Harrison: I have not asked him that. Mr. Blake said if Mr. Harrison could bring proot that the child was not in a fit state to be vaccinated, the case would be clear, and the Bench would know what to do. Mr. Palmer said Mr. Harrison had been served with the proper notices, and if such were the case he | had only to produce a medical certificate te that effect; but he had not done so. Personally he sympathised with Mr. Harrison; but public bodies had certain duties entrusted to them to carry out, and they were bound to make efforts to carry out those duties properly. 'The Mayor observed that Mr. Harrison had said it was not ina spirit of opposition that he did not comply with the law ; and if the child was not fit to be vaccinated it could not he done. Mr. Harrison said he had seen a case in London where the magistrates had dismissed the second case. Mr. Palmer said he simply asked the magistrates to carry out the liw. Mr. Blake suggested that Mr. Harrison should bring a certificate that the child was not in a fit state to be vaccinated. Mr. Harrison said he would write to where the child was staying. Mr. Palmer said he did not ask fora fine, but that the Bench should order the child to be vaccinated within a certain time. Mr. Harrison said he was sure if the Guardians had had the same experience as he, they would not be so hard upon him. An order was then made that the child ppouts be vaccinated within a month. The Mayor observed that if she was not in a fit state to undergo the operation, Mr. Harrison could produce a certificate to that effect-- Yarmouth Independent, Feb. 1. Andover. William Harvey, a tailor, of the High-street, Andover, was summoned by Mr. John Coster, the relieving officer of the Andover district, to show cause why he had not obeyed an order to have his child, Frederick Robert Harvey, vaccinated, according to the Act. The Defendant said the reason he had not complied, was because he had the strongest possible 382 conscientious objection to have his children vaccinated. Mr. Coster said-I am vaccination officer to the Guardians of the Andover Union. I have given Mr. Harvey the usual notice to have his child vaccinated, and he has taken no notice of it. Ihave received no certificate of successful vaccination, nor any sufficient exemption from the Act. Defendant was ordered to have the child vaccinated within a week, and to pay 15/- costs. There was a second charge against Mr. Harvey for disobeying an order to have his child, Wiliam Warder Harvey, vaccinated. A similar order was made in this case. Frederick Pearse, of the High-street, Andover, was summoned by Mr. Coster for refusing to obey an order to have his child vaccinated. The defendant did not appear in answer to the charge. Police-sergeant Scott proved the service of the summons. He said-I served the defendant personally with the summons on the 15th of February, at his residence. John Coster said-On the 18th of December last, I obtained an order against the defendant to have his child vaccinated within 14 days. 'The child's name is Elizabeth Ada Pearse. Since that time I have received no certificate of successful vaccination, nor any certificate exempting the child from being vaccinated. The defendant was ordered to pay £1. 10s. fine and costs, or in default 21 days' imprisonment.- Andover Chronicle, Feb. 22. Chesterfield County Police. Before J. J. Barrow, W. Fowler, F. Swanwick, and C. Markham, Esars. Compulsory Vaccination. Before the following case came on, Mr. Lawton applied that it might be taken early, as he had his business to attend to.-Mr. Fowler said other people had business to attend to. 'The Bench could not take it out of its course.-Mr. Markham said it was a very busy day for Mr. Lawton. He thought the Bench ought to hear the case.- Ultimately. the Bench decided to take the case next. James Lawton, news agent, Whittington, was summoned by Herbert Shaw, at the instance of the Chesterfield Board of Guardians, for not complying with an order dated February Ist, to have' his child vaccinated, in accordance with. the Vaccination Acts. -Mr. Lawton said he might object to the summons on account of its uncertainty, but he would not do so. He objected to the Vaccination Acts; and on moral grounds he felt himself justified in not obeying them. Vaccination was contrary to the laws of God.-The magistrates giving signs of impatience, the defendant said he should not detain them, but he could prove, if necessary, that vaccination tion propagated syphilis and various other diseases. -Mr. Swanwick asked the defendant if he had   'dant. [April 1, 1873. any evidence to show why the order should not have been obeyed.- Ultimately the Bench fined him ~ 20/- and 15/6 costs, or 14 days in default. A lady here stepped forward, and said she had been instructed, on behalf of the Mothers' Anti-. Compulsory League, London, at the instance of the Countess de Noailles, to pay the fine for the defen- The fine was paid accordingly, and the defendant left the court with his friends. Derbyshire Courier, Feb. 28. Chesterfield Borough Police. Before J. Marsden, Esq. (Mayor), Dr. Booth, J. M. Hewitt, and S. Manlove, Esqrs. A Vaccination: Case. George Mason Goundry, grocer, Chesterfield, was charged with not complying with the Vaccination Act.-Mr. Herbert Shaw, the officer appointed by the Chesterfield Guardians for carrying out the provisions of the Act, having given evidence, the defendant admitted the child was not vaccinated, and that it was under 14 years of age. He (defendant) was about to hand in a report of the evidence of Dr. Hutchinson, as given before the Royal Commission, and printed in the Medical Times, when Dr. Booth said it would have no effect, for whatever their private opinions were, they were bound to carry out the Act.-Defendant: I think that is a mistake; if you will be kind enough to read the report I have, you will find that the enforcement of an order is left at the option of the magistrates. Further, I think the previous case against me ought to have been taken under the 29th section, instead of the 31st; for the order of the Local Poor Law Board is, that under the former section only one conviction can be made; therefore, it seems like vindictiveness on the part of the Guardians to proceed under the 31st section. Defendant thought it was a shame that persons should be made to suffer from sores the result of vaccination.-Dr. Booth thought that any case of that sort was the result of vaccination not properly carried out. - Defendant: There are more eases of smallpox amongst the vaccinated than the unvaccinated.-Dr. Booth: I think not.-- Defendant: I have the statistics to show it, as printed by order of the House of Commons. - The Bench then made the usual order for defendant to comply with the Act, and pay costs.-Derbyshire Courier, Feb. 28. Marylebone. Mr. W. Young, chemist, of 8, Neeld - terrace, Paddington, appeared before Mr. Mansfield, in answer to a summons issued on the information of Mr. W. Dudman, a vaccination officer appointed by the Guardians of the parish of Paddington, who stated that he had reason to believe that the defendant's. child (a girl aged under 14) had not been vaccinated, in accordance with an order made by ~ Dudman stated that the defendant was recently fined at this court 20/-, with - 20/- costs, for refusing to produce the child in court - the magistrates. Mr. Le ee see ee, Pee ee ee April 1, 1873.] when proceedings were taken against him. An order was then made for the vaccination of the child, but had not been obeyed.-The Defendant pleaded guilty to the charge; but said that he thought these continued prosecutions were condustéd in a vindictive spirit, as there were hundreds of unvaccinated children in the district whose parents were not proceeded against. His refusal to have the child vaccinated arose from a conviction of the injurious effects of vaccination, derived from a careful study of the writings of some of the most - advanced medical men of the day. He thought his _deliberately-formed opinions ought to be respected. -Mr. Mansfield gave the defendant credit for sincerity, but remarked that the Guardians had a duty to perform. The defendant would have to pay a fine of 10/-, with 10/- costa -The Defendant said that the money would be paid by the Anti-Com_pulsory Vaccination and Mutual Protection Society. -Times, Jan. 31. Manchester. Ansther Anti-vaccinator.- Yesterday, at the Manchester County Police-court, before Sir J. I. Mantell -and Mr. Thomas Dickens, Mr. Richard Bealey, a commission agent, residing at 9, Cleveland-road, Crumpsall, was summoned under the 29th section of the Vaccination Act for neglecting to have his child vaccinated within three months of its birth. The child was born on the 26th of March last, and the defendant was served witha notice to have it vaccinated. Defendant refuses to allow his child to be 'vaccinated ; and knowing this, the Guardians of the poor at Prestwich have decided to bring the defendant before the magistrates once a-month. Mr. ' Bealey says that he does not care for this, and he is willing to pay any amount of money rather than allow his child to be vaccinated. Sir J. I. Mantell asked the defendant if he had anything to say ?- Defendant: No, sir; I simply refuse.-Sir J. I. _Mantell : Then you know, I suppose, that the bench has no alternative but to fine you ?-' Defendant: Yes, sir, 1 don't wish to say any more than that I _ object to vaccination.-Sir J. I, Mantell: We must inflict a penalty of £1 and costs.-The fine was at _ once paid.-Manohester Courier, Jan. 22. Walsall. . Neglect of Vaccination. - Alfred Staniey, buckle manufacturer, was charged with having neglected to have his two children, Elizabeth and Charles Henry Stanley, vaccinated. Mr. Dale, who represented Mr. Joseph Kilburn, vaccination officer, said that was not the first time Mr. Stanley had been summoned for non-compliance with the law. 'I'wo or three months ago, Mr. Stanley was fined in the mitigated penalty of 5s.,in the hope that he would comply with the requirements of the Act; but Mr. Stanley had not done so, and he (Mr. Dale) wished the Bench to inflict such a fine as would teach Mr. Stanley that so long as the law was the law it must be complied with.,The Guardians had no wish to  . 383 punish people; but, knowing the importance of vaccination, did it only to compel them to comply with the law. If a fine of 20s, and costs was inflicted from time to time it might have the desired effect ; but if only a fine of 45s, was imposed, it would pay these Anti-vaccination people to,pay the fines rather than comply with the law. If Mr. Stanley would now promise to comply with the law, an adjournment would be consented to; and if the children were vaccinated in the meantime, nothing more would be heard of this prosecution. V'rom this it would be seen that the Guardians, in instituting the proceedings, had no vindictive feeling.-Mr. Stanley said that, seeing the vaccination question was a very vexed question, and that in their own town they had had several instances of the evil results of vaccination tion, he thought the justice of the case would be met by the infliction of a fine of jd. and costs.-Mr. Newman said he differed in opinion from Mr, Stanley as to the efficacy of vaccination.--The Bench, after a short consultation, fined Mr. Stanley 20s. and costs in cach case.-Walsalt Lvce Press. Paddington. Mr. James Stuck has been before the Marylebone Magistrates for non-vaccination. Mr. Wm. Young, of Harrow-road, in writing to the Paddington Times, says :-'' Allow me to call tho attention of your readers to the case of James Stuck, of 38, Irongate Wharf, earning about 303. a week, and having a wife and four young children to support. He has been the subject of the most cruel and relentless persecution by the Paddington Board of Guardians, on account of his refusal to have his child vaccinated. During the past six weeks, he has been summoned to the Marylebone Police-court three times, and fined twice, 20/ and costs. No thanks are due to the Guardians that he escaped the third time, but owing to some informality in the proceedings of the vaccination officer, Dudman, the magistrate on that occasion dismissed the summons. The Guardians cannot plead ignorance of J. Stuck's conscientious objections to vaccination, for about two years ago he was summoned by them on a similar charge, and fined 20/ and costs ; neither is it very clear what they propose to achieve by these repeated despotic proceedings. If their object is to ruin an honest man and a good citizen, to pauperise and reduce to beggary his wife and family, they will probably succeed; but if they think to procure the vaccination of his child, they will find themselvcs much mistaken; for, being one of those who regard vaccination as a sin, an insult to God and man, James Stuck will never violate his conscience, or allow the blood of his child to be polluted by the vaccinator, to gratify the unholy ambition of his tyrannical persecutors. They would show a more Christian spirit by refunding to J. S. the money they have caused him to be deprived of, and sending a public apolegy to him for their uncharitable conduct." 384 The Anti-Vaccinator. Gainsburgh. Charges under the Vaccination Act. Samuel Wharton, of Gainsburgh, was summoned for noncompliance with the Vaccination Act.--Mr. Howlett appeared for the prosecution, and Mr. Bladon for defendant.-Mr. Brownlow, deputy registrar, said: On the 22nd November, 1872, he had given a notice to defendant to have his child vaccinated within 14 days.-Mr. Bladon called for the duplicate of the notice, but witness said he had not got one; and Mr. Howlett contended that it was not necessary he should produce a duplicate.--Mr. Bladon said he must respectfully submit to the Bench he had never yet seen a notice proved in this way: there ought either to be a duplicate produced, or if the notice was verbal, the words used should be repeated.-Sir C. Anderson said he thought the words of the notice should be given,-A form of notice was then read over to witness, and he stated it was the form of notice he gave to defendant in writing.-This was considered to be sufficient proof of notice by the Bench, though Mr. Bladon still contended it was informal, and he characterised it as being a most loose and irregular way of giving notice. He called particular attention to the wording of the summons "after notice duly given"' and submitted that it had not been duly given.-The Bench considered the question, and decided that due notice had been given. -In answer to Mr. Bladon, Mr. Brownlow then stated that the child was bornin August, 1871.-Mr. Bladon then pointed out to the Bench that the information should have been laid a month ago,as the Vaccination Amendment Act laid it down that complaint should be made of non-compliance with the Act within twelve months of the offence being committed. 'This child was 16 months old, and allowing the three months allowed for the child to be vaccinated in, the 12 months named by the Act had gone by.-Mr. Howlett pointed out that the offence charged was not for neglecting to vaccinate at all, but for unsuccessful vaccination.-The Bench overruled this second objection of Mr. Bladon's, who then addressed them, observing that he had felt it his duty to his clients to endeavour to avail himself of every point or difficnlty that might arise in the case, but that whatever might be the view taken by his clents or by others on the subject of vaccination, he was well aware that the Bench could not travel out of, and must act in accordance with, the statute. Mr. Bladon then pressed that the case was not one for a penalty.-Mr. Howlett said that no penalty was required unless defendant refused to obey the order made by the Bench ; and an order was then made to have the child vaccinated within one month. Charles Doughty, of Gainsburgh, was summoned for a similar offence. The case was proved by Mr, Brownlow, and there being no defence made by Mr, Bladon, a similar order was made by the Bench, Henry Mitchell was summoned for neglecting to have his child vaccinated within three months of its [April 1, 1873. birth in February, 1872.-Mr. Brownlow proved the service of notice on defendant, and that the child was not vaccinated.-_In defence, Mr. Bladon said he should call defendant to prove that the child was weakly, and he feared its death might follow, as it had done toa child of his who died immediately after vaccination at Lincoln.-Defendant was then called, and said that he had a child vaccinated seven years ago by Dr. Glasier, of Lincoln. It was four or five months old, and was vaccinated in October. When the punctures began to rise a few days after vaccination tion, the child was taken ill, and Dr. Glasier was called in, and at once acknowledged the illness was' from its having been vaccinated with bad lymph. The child was a fine healthy one, but from that time wasted away, and died from the effects of the vaccination, two years afterwards. Witness believed Dr. Glasier was a public vaccinator.-By Mr. Howlett: The child I am now summoned for is a very healthy one, and I have no certificate from a doctor to say it is unfit for vaccination.-Mr. Bladon said that was all the evidence he should offer, and it was simply to show that people who were summoned for these offences were not so stupid as they had been called, but had good*grounds for their so-called obstinacy.- Defendant was fined the full penalty of 20s. In the next case, against a man named Thompson, if was submitted by Mr. Bladon, and sworn to by defendant, that the child was notin a fit state to be vaccinated, owing to illness.-_Mr. Brownlow said he had told defendant to get a certificate of the child's illness from Dr. Mackinder, but he had failed to do so.-The case was adjourned for a fortnight, and defendant was recommended to take it to Dr. Mackinder, and obtain a certificate.-Retford and Gainsburgh News, Jan. 18, 1873. Auckland, New Zealand.-Dr. Armitage has returned to Tauranga from an inland trip. During his absence he has vaccinated 486 natives at. the following places :-Wairoa, Kariri, and Waitangi, on Lake Tarawera; Kaitereria, Kiore, Ohinemutu, and Ngongataha.-Auckland Weekly News, Dec. 7. Anti-vaccination Lectures recently delivered. ( Stamford......Feb. 18. Jno: Pickering, FOR.G:S. ¢ Lincoln. 22.8, on) Baton | Gainsboro'... .. " 20. Morley. ..... .:;Mareh 10. Ossetticcei' 76s gin Dr Sexton... .<ud. doen. Batley cox 0: bales Heckmondwike 1" 13. Mirfield... .... ee ; The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz.:- Single copy, for 6 months.......... 1s. 6d. 12 Do. Ny pebetecccrneuletete 3s. on All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. Rata a _ Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. The Anti-V accinator, and  . a Edited by Jno: Pickering, F.R.G.S., F.S.8., F.8.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. : Fortnightly, by F. Pit 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator Hublished easy eer 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. ' : Ke All Communications to be sent to the Editor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. April 18, 1878. [Price One Penny. - No. 25. New Series. Contents, Page The Humbug of Vaccination... <....c.0ss+sces 385 Protest of the Second German Congress ...... 387 Petition of the German Congress for the Repeal of the Compulsory Vaccination Laws ...... 388 Baron von Koenig on Vaceination *............ 389 The Plague-Spot of Vaccination .....0.......- 389 Compulsory Vaccination in Ireland ............ 390 AS Word to Anti-ViacCimators .onsscencses. see 390 A Veterinary Surgeon on Blood-Poisoning .... 390 HE so is ANAT CLOS Vetolo ore o0) cielo) oscil elelois/ejoicle sieisiele 392 Vaccination Prosecutions :-Sudbury, Leeds, Dewsbury, Whitley-bank, Bow Street, High NCIS DE NVIRAMY "elelo a) - sictsias Slois oisi sion einele elvis' 394 The Vaccinator and his Wife. Canto 3........ 398 The Humbug of Vaccination. By Dr, Hamernik. Before the present system of vaccinating with cowpox lymph was introduced, the practice of inoculating with the virus of the natural smallpox was followed during about 80 years of the last century. The effects of thisinoculation were greeted with the warmest praise; it was considered certain that smallpox would be completely stamped out by this means; and as members of Royal families had fallen victims to the disease, everyone now felt assured that smallpox could be prevented from invading the precincts of such elevated circles again, and that the regular Royal succession would remain unbroken by its influence. The Empress Maria Theresa endowed the Inoculation Institution in a truly Imperial manner, principally on account of her belief in this supposition. Asarule, the matter for inoculation was only taken from those who were No, 25.-Vol, I, slightly ill, only having varicella pustules (i.¢., chicken-pox) ; and it was considered certain that only the mildest form of smallpox occurred after this operation, and that natural and severe smallpox was henceforth impossible. When the inoculation produced pustules on the patient, they were really smallpox pustules ; that is-not only appearing on the punctured part, but, as is usual in smallpox, scattered all over the body. Time brought the experience, however, that a person inoculated from another suffering from the mildest varicella, might contract very severe smallpox; and that even a second attack not unfrequently took place. When, in the course of time, epidemics of the worst kind broke out, and the virus taken from the sufferers produced attacks of malignant smallpox, inoculators were obliged to give up the practice; and in many States it was then prohibited as vigorously as it had before been encouraged. * * * * * The practice of inoculation has taught us the important truth-that the disease of smallpox is one and the same under all circumstances; that numerous pustules show it to be the same disease indicated by a few scattered ones; and that by inoculation, both varieties of the disease may be transmitted. Therefore, smallpox must always be designated by the same name-smallpox, Variola. Like other diseases, if sometimes appears in a malignant form, sometimes slightly modified, and again in quite a mild form; and thence have arisen the terms used at present- Variola vera, legitima; Variolois, Varicella ; modified chicken-pox, with pimple-shaped glebulous conical pustules ; papulose elevations or pustules, not only abundant, but frequently arising from a wrong and injurious source. Severe and mild smallpox epidemics have always existed, both 3286 of them long before the periods of inoculation and vaccination ; and the theory that inoculated persons only take a mild form of smallpox, suffer less from it, and are in less danger of a fatal issue, has been propounded ever since the introduction of inoculation; and its origin is contemporary with the beginning of the complaints of the inoculators as to the degeneracy and increasing uncertainty of the lymph. The whole system is built upon error and fraud. From a physiological point of view, such theses are placed beyond the pale of discussion-how much more of proof ! The operation of vaccination is not in itself so insignificant as has been supposed, and very frequently is followed by results more or less injurious. At one period it was declared that from 1 to 2 per cent. of vaccinated cases ended fatally. Cases have frequently been observed in which vaccination has been followed by St. Vitus' dance, swelling of the elands of the shoulder and arm, abscesses, withering up of the punctured and the surrounding parts, accompanied by shivering attacks; increased heat of the body, heightened pulse, &c. The deaths that have ensued from vaccination seem to have been caused by pyemia, so-called, following upon it. The fever symptoms of the vaccinated child are degrees of what is known as pyzmia, and their intensity and manifestation are variously modified according to the quantity of matter inoculated, and its nature, on the one hand-and according to the appropriative or digestive powers of the child, on the other hand. If the time should come when medical science shall have attained a higher degree of development, it will then scarcely be credited that inoculation from mattery discharges-and, worse still, from matter proceeding from an unknown source-was practised and looked upon with favour by physicians and medical colleges, on the unfounded and unscientific theory of protecting an innocent and unconscious child during its whole future life from a disease (Jenner); when it has been distinctly proved that it is the most patent humbug even to assert that it modifies it. Whoever will try experiments on the poisoning of the blood by- injected matter (pyeemia), on the coagulation of the blood in the veins, on the inflammation of the arteries, &c., let him collect the various vaccination stuffs, and experiment upon other animals than man. In my opinion, it is not pleasant to pollute oneself with mattery liquids, and_ not much pleasanter to poison and kill others. When vaccinaters saw that the whole foundation of vaccination was tottering, they and their, friends had recourse to the concocting of statistics from the vaccination reports. The Anti-Vaécinator sand [April 15, 1873. Thus, too, when vaccinators found that the vaccine did not '' take," and when nothing could prove that the operation had been successful, they gave out either that the arm had been interfered with, or that the lymph was not of the best kind; and when these excuses would not avail without bringing shame on themselves, they asserted that one single operation. was insufficient, and that it must be repeated every ten years, every five years, and finally every year. Jenner conceived no foreboding of these fluctuations ; in his opinion one vaccination served,for a lifetime ; and his belief was-that if all mankind could be vaccinated, smallpox would vanish from the earth, banished for ever. If Newton, or any other physicist, were to have supported a theory on such proofs as those brought forward in favoar of vaccination, what would their disciples have thought? Students of physic and mathematics would scarcely recognise their names, because they only reverence scientific men; but among physicians it seems to be different. The doctrines of physicians cannot be compared with those of true science. _ While scientific theories are drawn from the deductions of unexceptionable facts and observations, medical theories may be compared sometimes to a tailor and sometimes to a shoemaker ; and after a short time they are applicable to the shoemaker,..and not to the tailor. When _ all arguments in favour of cowpox inoculation proved vain, physicians discovered that smallpox did not kill even a third of the vaccinated cases ; whereas - it sometimes destroyed two-thirds of the unvaccinated. When, some years ago, the Medical Faculty of Vienna drew up a Report on Vaccination, the only argument they could bring forward was. that afforded by mortality returns. Jenner could not, of course, command statistics, so that he simply sct up a theory which he left to posterity to prove! Medical alchemists found, however, that this. theory might prove very profitable-that is, to the alchemists ; and it matched their theorems, as one egg matches another. % * * & I must not omit to observe, that the classing of hospital patients under the head 'vaccinated '"' and "unvaccinated," is not so simple and practicable an affair as it may seem at first sight. For many years I was principal physician of the smallpox wards of the general hospital here; and I must confess that my utmost efforts failed to accomplish this difficult task. For instance-the registers were frequently imperfect, owing to negligence, absence, forgetfulness, and so on; and frequently it is impossible to ascertain the truth, because the patients do not know themselves whether they have been vaccinated or not; or the vaccination marks are imperceptible owing to the thickness of the smallpox pustules. Thus the vaccinator remains impregnable, and we who seek the truth can rely neither on his assertions nor on his reports. If we attempt to arrive at the truest explanation of the relation which cowpox bears to smallpox, we must look 'to those elevated and intelligent - le ee ee a April 45, 1873.]  . 387 members of the community who have no connection with medicine. From these we can learn the number of smallpox cases, the deaths, the severity of the attacks, and the particulars as regards vaccination. It is not so easy as it seems; but if we refuse to be influenced by intimidation, and resolve upon obtaining this information (by which also the taxes would certainly be lessened), the result would be as near the truth as it would be possible to arrive. We must remember that the Government has long felt the necessity of such an inquiry, in order to come to a clear comprehension of the matter; but the present position of affairs unequivocally shows that the Government is hoodwinked by physicians and medical colleges, not only in this but in other matters, to the prejudice of the people. Truth must always be clear to men of normal intelligence; and in special cases the explanation could be assisted by professional commentary. In such a Committee of Inquiry, the professional element should in no case exceed a fourth of the members, and the medical portion should never be at liberty to vote, but only to advise. Protest of the Second German Congress of the Friends and Supporters of the Treatment of the Human Body, in Health and Disease, in accordance with the Laws of 'Nature, held at Chemnitz, on 1st October, 1873. In the course of the last century, Europe was decimated by smallpox, as formerly by the plague, and in either case the chief causes were the prevalence of conditions of life incompatible with health, combined with a system of treatment inconsistent with nature's dictates. In 1801, when the great smallpox epidemic seemed to be dying out, the unjustly bepraised discovery of Dr. Jenner emerged into notice, by which the practice of inoculation, which had been forbidden by law on account of its injurious consequences, became restored to its place in public esteem in the novel shape of cowpox lymph, and even of diseased matter from a horse's heel. The discovery was favoured by the erroneous medical science of the period, which taught thatthe | suppression of symptoms was identical with the suppression of disease. This superstition unfortunately found adherents in the orthodox school of the period, and still finds advocates among congenial thinkers at the present day, because the procedure corresponds with many of the legalised theories of modern State medicine, which take for their motto, "contrarta contrartis," or " similia similibus curantur." That the population, in alarm at the decimation they had undergone, should, in despite of the warnings of the more enlightened, eagerly accept the offer of a complete protection and guaranteed antidote against the much-feared enemy, recommended as it was by magistrates and rulers, and hailed by the clergy .as of baptismal efficacy, will not appear incredible to the unprejudiced observer who reflects that the science of physiology was not fostered, diffused, and encouraged seventy years ago, aS in these days; and who recals the dark superstition of the last age, which saw miracles and divine wrath in every unexplained event, contracting the intelligence of people and governors in its bands with the dogma that 'faith is the only true exponent of science and natural law." E To this circumstance was conjoined the accidental coincidence in point of time of the dying-out of the smallpox epidemic, and the spreading (induced by the public fears) of Dr. Jenner's discovery. We know, however, that the smallpox was already losing its power before the general spread of vaccination, and that the latter contributed scarcely any perceptible effect in support of the supposition that the decline of the smallpox was due to vaccination. The apparent consequences of vaccination invested the experiment with a deceptive scientific halo, whose cause neither the discoverer nor his followers to the present day have been able scientifically (¢€., according to the natural laws of physiological change in the human body) to explain. The continued recurrence of smallpox epidemics, notwithstanding the almost universal practice of vaccination, refutes the claim in the most positive manner, even if reason, logic, and science did not oppose the notion the by the introduction of poisonous matter into the body of an animal, such matteris converted into a protective or healing substance-especially when the same matter is admitted to be equally poisonous on its elimination from the body in which it has been inserted. The Congress, therefore, considers it to be its duty to make a solemn protest against the application of any mineral, vegetable, or animal poison whatever, under the pretext of protection against a disease, or as a mode of healing during a disease : and against the use of any poison otherwise than in accordance with its intrinsic properties as a more or less powerful action of the particular organism to which it belongs. Further : the consequence of arm-to-arm vaccination tion is seen in the communication of whatever disease or morbid matter may be contained in the system. through which the lymph has passed, some of these diseases being of the most malignant character, whereby not only is produced the opposite result to the one intended, but also the spreading of disease is actually favoured by the very meths adopted for its prevention. The Congress, therefore, considers it to be incumbent on them-Secondly : To make a golemn protest against lymph inoculation either from arm-to-arm or from animals ; and against the inoculation of any kind of original or derivative lymph, as well ag 288 The Anti-Vacctnator and against all compulsory inoculation with morbid matter, on the ground that such procedure is a criminal invasion of personal freedom, and is also an offence accompanied with violence, and, therefore, ought to be included under sections 229 and 230 of the criminal code, which visits such offences with severe punishment. And further : The theory of vaccination has been robbed of every vestige of scientific support, by the increased enlightenment of the age, and by the public speeches and acknowledgments of medical men, who by their practical observations as directors of vaccine institutions, or as professors of clinics, have had opportunities of examining and estimating the sad results of this theory in practice ; as, for instance-Drs. Gregory, Epps, Collins, Pearce, Skelton, and Nittinger, Professors Hamernik, Hermann, Ennemoser, Mr anichfeld, Hochstetter, and many others. Theconsequence of which is, that the theory, as well as the practice, of vaccination is found to be untenable, and its illusory success is only maintained by statistics which are notoriously ductile in the highest degree, but which have served to prolong its miserable existence, and delay its finaldoom. Experience has shown that the greatest mortality of the human race occurs in the first year of life-the ratio varying between 20 and 50 per cent. in the different classes of society. And as vaccination is not considered safe in earliest childhood, on account of the weakness of the babe -(an unfortunate admission for a protective safe- suard !)-and is therefore often delayed by parents for this and for other reasons; and at the same time the greater portion of the deaths described as unvaccinated are under one year of age, and chiefly occur among the numerically preponderant class of the poor and the ignorant, amongst whom smallpox still originates and flourishes in spite of vaccination, while the children of cultivated classes are, irrespec- tive of vaccination, generally spared from smallpox , and would enjoy a still further immunity were it not for over-nursing, over-feeding, and vaccination itself;-it is evident that in any case a large per centage of deaths in earliest infancy may be expected to occur in the class of the unvaccinated. Therefore, the Congress considers itself in duty bound to make a third solemn protest against the present misapplication of mortality statistics among vaccinated and unvaccinated, as an unfair and untrue representation of the value of vaccination. Further: it has been proved that the rational treatment of smallpox-by washing the patient in warm water, by keeping him in cool and well- ventilated rooms, by avoiding all stimulating reme- dies, and the use of any physic whatever-in fine, by a natural, in place of a medicinal, method of treatment, not only is the danger lessened as far as the patient is concerned, but the chances of his imparting the infection to others are almost entirely removed. Therefore, in conclusion, the Congress solemnly protests against the unfounded pretensions of orthodox medical science to cure smallpox, while it refuses to take into account either the self: healing powers of nature, or the strength of the patient, as agents in the recovery. This protest, therefore, requests (1) the with- drawal of all vaccination establishments on the part of the Government. (2) The discontinuance of Government rewards to vaccinators. (3) The repeal of all direct or indirect legal compulsion by the State. Vaccination will thus be left to the private choice and conviction of each individual, and the State will be relieved of the duties of a beadle. Petition for the Repeal of the Compulsory Vaccination Laws. From the Second German Congress of the Friends and Supporters of the Natural Treatment of the Human Body, in Health and Disease, held at Chemnitz, on Oct. 1st, 1872. To the Honourable the Reichstag at Berlin. The establishment of constitutional government implies the constitutional freedom not only of the State, but of each individual member; and, there- fore, the withdrawal of the unholy reign of force is a necessary consequence, completing the edifice by substituting the benign rule of equal and righteous laws, for that of force, compulsion, and dark superstition. Nevertheless, there still remains on the Statute - book one indirectly compulsory law, which not only contradicts the teaching of our improved knowledge of nature, but is in its consequences as injurious to the health of the nation as it is to the dignity of the State, as is set forth in the accompanying protest of the Congress. This remnant of the rule of force is called Compulsory Vaccination. Misled by the scientific fallacies of a mode of healing repugnant to nature's laws, which originated in the despotic spirit of departed ages, the supporters of this dangerous process have attempted to fasten their illusory protection upon us by the strong hand of power; most erroneously concluding that the smallpox, which is nature's mode of eliminating morbid matter from the body throngh the skin, to be a process of an entirely opposite character, and treating it since 1801 as a dangerous disease, against which protection can be afforded by actually increasing the amount of morbific matter within the human body. Yet, at the Scientific Congress at Cherbourg in 1860, and. also that held at Bordeaux in 1861, Dr. Nittinger, on the 9th Sept., proved- 1, That cowpox not only affords no protection whatever, but that inoculation is in every way injurious, and is a costly charlatanry from which [April 15, 1873. I i -_s April 15, 1878. ]  . 389 'mankind suffer both in purse and in person, to the 'equal disadvantage of themselves, their families, and ithe State. 2. That vaccination is an insolent defiance of science and the laws of nature, a violation of the 'moral principle, and also of the duty of the State. 'which ought, on the contrary, to protect the physical 'and mental welfare of the people by wise and humane 'legislations; and the compulsory enforcement of 'such a pernicious process is an offence against per- sonal liberty. 3. It was also proved that no inoculation is pro- 'tective ; that inoculation is liable not only to produce diseases, but also communicable ones; also, that -smallpox, when treated by modes of healing in accordance with nature's laws, not only ceases to be a dangerous complaint, but its contagious quality disappears. Wherefore, this Congress petitions for the repeal of all compulsory inoculation laws as being mistaken and partisan laws, contrary to science, contrary to personal freedom, and contrary to the spirit of law itself (which is the administration of justice between parties), for the State ought never to descend to the, character of a partisan. In the interest of mankind and for the benefit of 'the State, the members of this Congress therefore express their hope that these compulsory laws may 'be withdrawn. Their removal will thus set an enlightened example to the German States; and the honourable Reichstag will not only earn the grateful acknowledgments of the present, but also the thankful recognition of wiser generations in the future, -and the State will be finally relieved from its pro- 'tectorate of medical superstition. With the greatest respect, the members of the 'Second German Congress of the Friends and Sup- porters of the Natural Treatment of the Human Body in Health and Disease here append their signatures. {Here the Signatures appear. ] Baron von Koenig on Vaccination.* Inoculation is a remnant of the great medizval superstitions, from which every claim to State | protection ought to be withdrawn, and the State itself ought to be relieved from the necessity of compulsion, and cease to be a partisan. We do not wish to force these our convictions of the noxious nature of inoculation upon any one, least of all upon those with whom the support of this - superstition has become a dogma, by means of which _a large caste derives in great measure its means of sub- -gsistence. It is for this latter reason that the members _of this caste, with a few honourable exceptions, are glow to respond to the call to offer up of their own *The above is an extract from a letter written to the Chairman of the Second German Congress, held at Chemnitz in October last, by Baron you Koenig. accord this profitable dogma at the shrine of truth, humanity, and the national welfare, and are content for the present to remain the willing or unwilling columnar supports of the Vaccination Peter's-penny. But we can and ought to insist, that as we ask for no compulsory suppression of vaccination, the medical profession in like manner ought not to consider itself entitled to demand a compulsory law in favour of the practice, especially as in 1569 their monopolist privileges were withdrawn. On these subjects, convictions, both in inquiry and in practice, ought to be free. For a free State ought to have one only limitation of its rights and duties, and that is- Equal rights for all." What is useful and true will force its way by its inherent strength, if the State will hold aloof from partisanship. The Plague-Spot of Vaccination. By Dr. Hamernik. Books and records of vaccination, data concerning the number of persons who suffer from smallpox, and the relative mortality among the vaccinated and unvaccinated, are all erroneous, and will continue to be so as long as they emanate from vaccinating surgeons. For instance, the officials* (who can scarcely be considered in connection with a scientific conviction) find it advantageous and convenient to support an already prosperous institution ; and thus, from high places downwards, a many-sided pressure is brought to bear upon it; and the Faculty are influenced by it, and find it the easier to conform to it, not only on account of their deficient education,t but because of the numerous advantages resulting from the prac- tice. The immediate consequences of such conditions are incorrect and falsified reports, which, in their turn, are used as fresh proofs of the benefits of vaccination. After every epidemic or visitation of smallpox, we hear of praises, rewards,} medals, &c. This circulus vitiosus is especially apparent where bureaucracy meddles in the private concerns of the people, generally and individually; and seeks by mystification and misrepresentation (because by other means it would be impossible) to obtain profit and reputation for itself. *The members of the Local Government Board, the Metropolitan Asylums Board, Medical Officers and Inspectors, Vaccination Inspectors, and such like officials, -to say nothing of Magistrates, Guardians, and their Clerks; all of whom exhibit a distaste to hear or read anything when they know it is against vaccination.-Ed. A, V. +The medical course of education has omitted any reference to vaccination. Students have regarded it as an institution based upon the scientific inquiries of some of their predecessors, and firstly up to Jenner: but ask any student why he believes in the rite, and the only intelligible answer he can make, will be-'* Because it is the law.''- HdVAeV- +See the Reports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, where such rewards are annually bestowed upon public vaccinators, varying from £5 up to £100 each, and rar es in the whole to some thousands of pounds.- 390 Compulsory Vaccination in Ireland. To the Editor of the Antt-Vaccinator. Kenmare, Ireland, March 28, 1873. Sir,-In Ireland, even our sorrows are sure to have something comical about them. I saw the other day, about twenty miles from this, the following notice posted by the dispensary doctor of the district :-'' Any child under six months of age not coming to me to be vaccinated, will be prosecuted' according to law." I know that my views on vaccination are opposed to those of many sensible people, especially orthodox persons and doctors; but I cannot help that. My convictions are strong, and my sympathies acute. Remember that in Ireland every dispensary doctor gets by law from the rates a shilling for every patient he successfully vaccinates. The medical profession is very conservative. A short time ago two first-class London doctors refused to admit to consultation a third first-class London doctor, a man making ten thousand a-year by his profession, because in some cases he uses homceo- pathy ; and, more than that, the two doctors referred to told me that such was the rule of the profession. By the apostles of vaccination we are constantly taunted with medical statistics, showing that most of those who die of smallpox were never vaccinated, and that most of those who recover from it have been. I reply-that I have not very profound confidence in the fulness and accuracy of those returns, in the first place ; and in the second, those statistics take no note of the number of people who imbibe deadly diseases, other than smallpox, through vaccination. Vaccination ought to be voluntary, not compul- sory, and if it had real merit, people would get vaccinated fast enough. . Let those who think it a protection be vaccinated, and they will, by their own showing, be impervious to danger from those who have not been vaccinated. -Your obedient servant, J. Townsend Trench. A Word to Anti-vaccinators. Lo the Editor of the Antt-Vaccinator. Hull, March 14, 1873. Dear Sir,-I think the time has now arrived for the Anti-vaccinators to bestir themselves. In the prospect of a dissolution, and the election of fresh Members of Parliament, I think we ought to begin to organise our forces. "Would-be Members will be expected to address their constituents, and give their opinion on different questions which agitate the public mind; and I think the question of compulsory vaccination is one of the most impor- tant. I would suggest, that meetings be called wherever there is a nucleus of the Anti-vaccination Society to form themselves into a committee, and call upon those of the electors who are opposed to   [April 15, 1873. the Compulsory Vaccination Act to come forward and help them in demanding of candidates a promise to support a measure for the repeal of the obnoxious Act. I, for one, will vote for no Member who will not promise to do something to. bring about the repeal of the Act; and I would urge upon every one of your readers to do the same, let their political opinions be what they may.-Yours truly, Thomas Thelwall. A Veterinary Surgeon on Blood-Poisoning. To the Editer of the Anti-vaccinator. Sir,-A gentleman very kindly placed in my hands a few copies of your Journal, one or two of which I have perused with much interest, because the teachings contained therein are so directly in accord with my own experience of blood-poisoning. Being a veterinary surgeon, it may, perhaps, be said that a member of that body should not venture to enter the list in opposition to those belonging to the sister profession ; but chance has thrown in my path opportunities of learning something of blood- poisoning, and I take it that it matters little whether the writer be of one faculty or of another, inasmuch as the originator of the system of vaccination had recourse to the lower animals wherewith to perform his operations. These introductory remarks will, I hope, suffice to allow me space for noting some of my experience of blood-poisoning. In the first place-I may observe that I know three young ladies of one family who were vac- cinated, and, last year, re-vaccinated. Up to that time they had always enjoyed robust health, and their skins were free from any eruptive disease; but after the operation of cutting, as it is sometimes termed, they all suffered from eruptions about the face and head, lasting many weeks, and proving most difficult to heal. Whether this malady was produced by vaccination or not, is not for me to say ; but it may be remarked, that those members of the same family who did wot undergo the process escaped disease. I know of many other similar cases. With reference to blood-poisoning in some of the lower animals, I may mention that during the time the terrible plague, known as rinderpest, was pre- valent in England, vaccination was recommended by a physician as a preventive, was tried, and signally failed. j At that time I was acting as Government Inspec- for in the county where the experiment was tried, and I declined to pocket the fees, because I had no faith in the system of vaccination. When, previous to the outbreak of rinderpest, smallpox decimated sheep with its ravages, inoculation was tried as a preventive, but failed to answer the expectations of its promoters, and was abandoned. April 15, 1873. |  . 391 Before and since that time, inoculation has been, practised upon cows, with the idea of preventing pleuro-pneumonia, and it is to this latter affection I would call attention. Those who advocate the practice of inoculation as preventive of lung distemper in cattle, quote many instances of their success in staying its ravages. They declare that when, after the death of a few animals from pleuro-pneumonia, inoculation has been resorted to, no further deaths have occurred, which is proof positive that the introduction of the virus has had the desired effect: but, in answer to this, it may be observed that in instances where an outbreak of this disease has occurred, and deaths ensued, prompt attention to sanitary arrangements has arrested the malady. 'This has been my experi- ence in several instances which have fallen under my own notice; and if, after the first few deaths, I had inoculated the remaining animals, the cessation of the disease might have been, by myself as well as others, attributed to that cause instead of the true one. With regard to the effect produced by inoculation in pleuro-pneumonia, it may be stated that the introduction of virus taken from the lungs of a cow which has suffered from that complaint, does not produce pleuro-pneumonia in the animals so treated, but only a kind of imitative fever, which now and then causes the loss of a tail, and sometimes the sloughing of that appendage extends so much as to cause the death of the animal. The effects of inoculation in sheep are entirely different, inasmuch as it produces smallpox in all its virulence. The character of the virus in the sheep is not the same as in the former case: the first is pus, the latter serum : the pus taken from the sheep is taken during the life of the animal; whereas the serum taken from the lungs of the cow is procured after death. Glanders in horses is another blood disease, and is propagated by actual contact; that is to say, glandered matter must be received upon a mucous membrane or an abraded surface, to produce the disease ; but it does not necessarily follow that an animal, to produce the disease, shall have symptoms of glanders. With the view of illustrating the effect of blood-poisoning, the result of an experiment per- formed some years ago by the writer of this letter, may here be related. A horse was declared to be glandered, but no idea could be formed as to the manner in which the disease had been contracted. I pointed to a pony which belonged to the owner of the horse, as the probable author of the malady, and upom examining the pony's nostrils, I fancied that the membranes of the nose exhibited an unhealthy colour. There were no other symptoms to lead to the supposition that the pony was diseased, save this; and under different circumstances no surgeon would have suspected the pony of being other than perfectly healthy. "I pur- chased an ass, scratched the nasal membranes, and the insides of the ears, with a lancet, and with my finger robbed the nose of the pony of a small quantity of what appeared to be healthy mucous, and rubbed it upon the scratches previously made upon the ass. The animals were both kept in the possession of the owner of the pony, and in a week the ass was suffering from glanders, as well as farcy in its most virulent form: The ass died in 13 days from the date of inoculation, and upon a post mortem examination, I found the same morbid changes as in the horse, after he was killed. This experiment was interesting, because it proved that it is not 'necessary for an animal to exhibit all, or indeed any, of the symptoms of glanders, in order to produce that frightful malady. irom this experiment a lesson may be learned :- viz., that we may not at all times be in a position to state the cause of disease, or where it has originated. Vaccine matter may be believed to be perfectly pure, but it may possibly cause so much derangement in the system, eing a foreign agent, as to set up a disease not easily cured. It will be gleaned from these remarks, that means are adopted with a view of preventing disease and death, but that opposite results accrue from both inoculation and vaccination, With regard to vaccination as preventive of smallpox in the human family, it is clear that the published statistics do not show that the desires of the operators have been realised. It may be asked whether the great Architect of the universe ever intended, in His wisdom, that such an interference with His laws, or such perversion of health as the introduction of poison into the system, should take place? One would suppose that in this advanced age we should hear of something less revolting, as a prevontive, than the actual poisoning of the vital fluid of tis li:man body by means of vaccination. if sanitary measures, aided by a proper and vigorous mode of disinfection were carried out, I feel convinced that the disease would be more readily got rid of than by blood-poisoning, either by vacci- nation or inoculation,-lI am, sir, yours truly, Cork, April 10, 1873. is Dyer. W. 8. Thornton writes :-There is an univer- sal understanding that individuals shall be subject to any laws, whether wise or foolish, provided only they be of equal and impartial operation, which may be enacted by a numerical majority of the community to which the individuals belong; and in this way individuals may become bound by any number of miscel- laneous pledges,-society acquiring simultaneously the right to hold individuals to the performance of those pledges. Thus, if by the vote of an unimpeachably representative House of Commons, it were declared to be for the general good, and agreed to accordingly, that every one should be vaccinated or circumcised. it would be incumbent on everyone to submit quietly to vaccination or circumcision, however deleterious the operation might be deemed by some." -ortnightly Review. In this event, it would clearly be the duty of guardians and magistrates to "carry out the law," and to submit themselves to it quietly, at least until its repeal upon petition. 392   {April 15, 1873. ; 5 The Antt-Gacctwvator. -+- April 15th, 1878. We have a few words to say as to the suggested difference in the mortality between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated. <A good deal of discussion, frequently attended with considerable warmth of feeling, has arisen in connection with the disputed proposition that the mortality in smallpox is greater among the unvaccinated than the vaccinated ; and it is, of course, asserted that vaccination is the cause of that difference. Our reply to this argument is two-fold. Firstly, we dispute the fact; and, secondly, if it were true, or if it be true in any given case, we deny that there is a protective - virtue in vaccination to bring about any such result; and where an instance can be furnished we say it is not only exceptional, but the circumstance is determined by other causes perfectly independent of vaccination. We know well enough how statistics have been worked up to show that the vaccinated are better protected than the unvaccinated. Reflect upon the slip-shod manner in which patients are received into hospitals. If there is no mark, easy of detection, the patient is entered "unvaccinated." If the disease is so far advanced as to render it impossible to see the marks of previous vaccination, the patient is interrogated; and if he cannot recollect as to whether he is or is not, the case is gladly described "unvaccinated." Then, again, remem- ber that for hospital statistics we are entirely dependent upon those who are interested to make out a case, and to support the practice. For our own part, we do not believe a shred of these statistics, for the simple reason, that the conclusions are opposed to our own observations, and to the still weightier testimony of professional men, who, against their interest, have notwith- standing certified to the contrary. Again: if the fact were true, or if true in any particular instance, how many conditions occur to the judgment which may account for the fact, totally irrespective of vaccination! The vaccinated, as a rule, are among the best cared for portions of the community; whilst the unvaccinated, save amongst those whose parents are classed among the objectors to the rite, are undoubtedly to be found amongst the worst, the most depraved, ill- fed, and badly-clothed, careless, and uneducated sections of society. And, lastly, there is another feature which increases the difficulty of obtaining reliable statistics, vyiz.-that in nearly one-third of the cases of vaccination, from constitutional causes, or bad and inefficient vaccination, the marks are in time perfectly obliterated; and all these go to swell the '' unvaccinated" class, and so far to countenance a foregone conclusion, and to establish a principle which is antagonistic | to all known physiological laws, and which the profession dare not carry into general practice. Just let us press this principle to its legitimate end. The pro-vaccinator says-'' We vaccinate because we believe vaccination is a mild form of smallpox, and we believe it to be wise to give a healthy person a mild form of a disease, to prevent him from having a severe form of the same disease in the ordinary course of things." Do you believe that? Answer- '' Yes." Then why do you not practise itfurther ? Why not give us a mild form of syphilis, scrofula, leprosy, and all the other inoculable diseases ? Why not ?-Because you dare not! You dare not extend the principle to another disease ; and yet there is no reason why you should not, but every possible reason, according to your theory, why you should, We challenge you to pursue this horrid practice in connection with any other disease. If you did, the nation would soon see through the disgusting imposture, and the only reason in the world why all do not see the deception of vaccination is-that they have been educated to believe in the rite, and they have not the moral courage to doubt or question the wisdom of a practice which is enforced by law, and supported by the Faculty. There is no other explanation, either within the domain of logic, or the experience of daily life, which forms what is called the common sense of the nation, The conyerse of the propositions above April 15, 1873.]  .' 393 - alluded to is what the Anti-vaccinator main- tains to be true, viz:-That a mild form of disease once communicated, or received casually, is no protection against a second attack of the same disorder, but actually ren- ders the patient more susceptible to a second attack; therefore, we object to vaccination altogether, and we urge that the basis upon which it rests is unphilosophical and_ false, Where is the physician who dare give utterance to the doctrine that one attack of syphilis, scrofula, bronchitis, rheumatism, gout, or any other disease, is a protection against a second attack? He knows the contrary to be true; and when he is called to a gouty or scrofulous patient, is not his first enquiry- 'Haye you ever had a previous attack ?" What prompts that question ? His experience leads him to conclude that one attack makes his patient liable to another, and hence he cautions him as to future conduct,-warning him that any irregularity may cause a return of the complaint, whatever it may be. The physician knows that the blood, or the constitution, once infected by any particular disease, the taint, or the poison, remains behind, and only waits a fitting opportunity of manifesting its presence and its power. Hence we cannot resist the conclusion that the ever- present disease of smallpox, and its great mortality at intervals, is positively a conse- quence-the natural consequence of vaccination ; and if vaccination were to cease from the land, not only smallpox, but other diseases communicable by vaccine, or roused into a state of activity by a disease condition being induced, would instantly diminish, and in time gradually disappear from our midst. The natural ten- dency of all zymotic diseases 1s to spread, and to increase in virulence under favourable cir- cumstances, consisting in widespread filthiness and general neglect of sanitary laws; and to diminish in proportion as the people surrender themselves to the operation of sanitary regulations, and become cleanly, temperate, and careful in their mode of life. But here in smallpox we have an exception, to some extent. Since 1838 the disease has not sensibly diminished, notwithstanding the gradual im- provement in every condition of life, from the highest to the lowest grade in the social scale. Nor is it possible that it should do so, so long as the disease by inoculation, miscalled vaccination tion, is not only allowed, but fostered and encouraged. This is the blunder of the age. It is the enemy inside the walls of the city. The terrible mortality from smallpox from 1722 to 1798, was due, in great measure, to inoculation, which caused and spread the disease in every direction; that is admitted on all hands now, although the people of those times could not, or would not, see it. It 1s just the same in vaccination . We inoculate, or vaccinate, the smallpox, and what comes of it ? The answer is one and the same -smallpox mortality ; and yet the people will not see it. And if an angel, athwart the sky, were to announce such a doctrine, he would stand a small chance of conyincing the people of the present day of the error of vaccination. Our cause is just. It will grow and gain adherents from day to day; but the vast mass of the population care not to involve themselves in abstruse investigations, and leaye such questions to harder workers, and to men who do not care to live if in life they cannot be useful ;-men who, when they once sce the folly of a practice, make it a matter of conscience, and give themselves no rest until the law authorising or enforcing it is repealed. "The Humbug of Vaccination." To ears polite this observation of Dr. Hamernik may sound somewhat harsh and unrefined; but to Anti-Vaccinators who for five-and-twenty years have seen the unwisdom-nay, the wickedness -of the practice; to those of us who have passed through every stage of doubt, and watched every phase the rite has assumed ; who have stripped it of all the subtleties which the profession have thrown around it,-the expres- sion of disgust above alluded to embodies our truest sentiments with regard to it. Amongst ourselves we cannot now speak of the wnrea- sonableness of vaccination, of its antagonism to every natural law and every principle in science ; but we have arrived at that point where it is more agreeable to think of it, to speak of it, as "the humbug of vaccination." . 394 Vaccination Prosecutions. Sudbury Petty Sessions. Before the Mayor (H. 8. Pratt, Esq.), G. W. Andrewes, and G. Mumford, Esqrs. Prosecutions under the Vaceination Act. N. Sands, Market-hill, was summoned for having neglected to have his child, John Harold Brown, aged two years, vaccinated in accordance with the Act of Parliament. The case having been proved by James Making, registrar of births, The Defendant said that he had not had the child vaccinated, from a conscientious and honest conviction that he would be committing a sin. He believed that vaccination not only did not prevent smallpox, but | was an incentive to other diseases. He cited cases in which vaccination, in his opinion, had produced disease in families which had hitherto been healthy: and he also stated that he had a cousin who had been vaccinated in infancy, and who was re-vaccinated at the time of the epidemic in London. . This was in the summer, but in the following autumn his cousin was attacked with smallpox, and died. Me therefore had no faith in the efficacy of vaccination; and objected to have the operation performed upon his children, believing, as he did, that it not only did no good in preventing smallpox, but actually was the cause of many diseases in the human system. He asked the magistrates to respect his conscientious objections, and dismiss the case. Mr. Andrewes informed the defendant that the magis- trates were there to administer the law as they found it, and they could not depart from the provisions of the Act. The. Bench would be very sorry to stop the defendant from expressing his honest convictions, but really the magistrates could not listen to them; and it was a fact, that unquestionably higher authorities than either the defendant or he (Mr. Andrewes), had demonstrated, beyond doubt, that vaccination was one of the most wonderful and useful scientific discoveries ever made, and was a great preventive of smallpox. Giving the defendant every credit for his conscientious epinions and honest convictions, the magistrates must, under the provisions of the Vaccination Act, make an order for the vaccination of the child in question. The Defendant submitted that the Act was " per- missive,' and that a discretionary power was left with the magistrates whether they dismissed a case or enforced vaccination. Mr. Andrewes said that the magistrates could use their discretion in almost every case with regard to dismissing it, whether it be a robbery,.murder, or any- thing else. They had every respect for the defendant's convictions, but the magistrates held a different view. Some persons might have a conscientious conviction that a mad dog was not dangerous; but other people, as in the case of vaccination, held a different view. The magistrates, however, were there simply to administer the law as they found it, and could not go into the question of the efficacy or ineflicacy of vaccination, which had been fully discussed over and over again. The Bench had no alternative but to make an order for the vaccination of the child. The Mayor said that the law allowed seven days; but the magistrates, if the defendant would hold out any assurance that the order would be complied with, would extend the time to 21 days.   [April 15, 1873. The Defendant said he could not go against his conscience; and again urged that the magistrates had power under the Act to dismiss the case, and asked them 0 do so. The Mayor said that their clerk informed them that they had no such power, and called their attention to & case where a magistrate declined to make an order, and on his decision being appealed against, the judges decided that the magistrate was wrong. _ The Defendant said that there was also a case where it was decided that where disease had followed in a family after vaccination, it was. not desirable for a magistrate to enforce the Act of Parliament. The Defendant, in answer to Mr. Andrewes, said that disease had not followed in his family. Mr. Andrewes said there was no doubt whatever about the case; the Bench must make an order. _ The Defendant applied for the case to be adjourned, in order that he might employ legal assistance. The Mayor said that he could do that now. The - magistrates would make the order for the child to be vaccinated within three weeks, and if it was not done by that time the case would come before the magistrates again. 'The defendant could then have a legal adviser, if he chose. The order was then made, 21 days grace being allowed. A. E. King, draper, Market-hill, was 'summoned for a similar offence, with respect to his child, Harry William, aged 1 year and 11 months, Mr. King, in defence, said that his reason for not having his child vaccinated, was conscientious conviction that by doing so he would be laying himself open to the risk of having disease placed in the boy's system-a child who was now as healthy as any son a magistrate or anybody else could place before them. The child had not only been preserved from smallpox, but from every other disease up to the present time, and he did not believe that he should be acting in accordance with scriptural views if he consented to have his child vaccinated with that vile stuff which it was sought to foree him to put into it. The Mayor interposed, stating that the Bench would not go into the question upon which the defendant was enlarging. The magistrates quite understood the defendant's views, which, they thought, had been expressed sufficiently strongly by the previous defendant ; but these were views to which the Act of Parliament attached no importance, and ef which the Bench could not take cognizance. The Defendant asked if conscience was not to be respected ? He was not summoned there for breaking a law out of any disloyalty, and he would cheerfully keep every law of the land, providing he did not in doing so commit asin. He believed that in vaccinating his child he would be laying it open to disease. Mr. Andrewes said that the Bench quite understood all the defendant's conscientious scruples, and to prolong the case any longer would be only taking up the time of the defendant and that of the magistrates. They believed quite as strongly one way as the defendant did the other. The Mayor said that he was a believer in vaccination ; and at the time of the smallpox epidemic had himself and the whole of his family re-vaccinated. An order was made similar to that in the case of Mr. Sands. _ Joseph Lawrence, labourer, was summoned for not having had his child, Jane Maria, aged three years, vaccinated. April 18, 1873.]  . 320 This Defendant also had a conscientious objection to vaccination, and stated that he, his wife, and four children, had suffered from smallpox. Himself and the four children were not ''cut"' for it, but his wife was vaccinated, and she had the smallpox '' the worst of the Tot" A similar order was made as in the last two cases. Samuel Seeley, of Sudbury, was summoned for neglecting to have his child, Samuel, four years of aze, vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of the Act. A similar defence was made; and the same order for vaccination to be performed within 21 days. The whole of the children in question were produced in court, and presented a picture of health.-Hssex and Suffolk News, Feb. 1. Petty Sessions, March 6.-Before the Mayor (H. 6. Pratt, Esq.), W. R. Bevan, Esq., and G. Mumford, Esq. Nathaniel Sands, Fancy Repository, Markct-hill, was summoned by Mr. Making, the vaccination officer appointed by the Board of Guardians, for non-compliance with an order of the magistrates to have his child, John Harold Sands, vaccinated according to law, the said child not having been unfit for vaccination, or insusceptible. The Defendant admitted that he had not complied with the order of the Bench; and in defence, urged similar reasons to those he put forward on the last oceasion for not having had his child vaccinated. He said (in answer to the Mayor) that the child was not in bad health, but he had an objection to vacci- nation. He relied upon "the leading medical journals,' confirmed by his own family experience, for proof of its evil effects in many instances, and good results in none-so far as a preventive of smallpox . Heurged this asa "reasonable excuse" for not having complied with the order of the magistrates. The Mayor said that this was nota "reasonable excuse," as interpreted by the Vaccination Act. The reasonable excuse recognised by the Legislature was the unfitness of the child for vaccination, or insusceptibility. Mr. Sands said he believed that his excuse might be admitted as reasonable. The Mayor replied, that according to the Act it could not: if it could, the Act of Parliament would be inoperative. And with regard to the statement made by the defendant on the last occasion the case was betore the bench-that the magistrates had a * discretionary power''-he might say, that he had looked into the matter carefully, and found that such was not the fact. There were instances where magistrates had acted upon that idea, and dismissed summonses; but their decisions had been overruled by the superior courts. The Defendant ventured to differ with his wor- ship, and was entering into a discourse on the evils of vaccination, and the injustice of the Vaccination Act, when the Bench interposed, and said that the magistrates could not hear him further, unless he had a "reasonable excuse' according to the Act; and they intimated that he was only taking up the time of the court in urging the defence he had set up. The magistrates, with every respect for the defendant's conscientious opinions, were convinced that they had no discretionary power in the matter at all, and must (under the Act) inflict a penalty. 'The penalty the Bench imposed was one of 10s. and the costs (which amounted to £1, 0s. 6d.) making altogether £1. 10s. 6d. The Defendant asked for a mitigation .of the penalty, stating that the magistrates need not fine him more than 6d. and costs; and if they respected his convictions, they might make the penalty small. The Mayor stated that the Bench had already mitigated the penalty to one-half; and reminded the defendant that the present fine did not exempt him from having his child vaccinated, If he continued to disobey the order made upon him on the last occasion, he might be proceeded against from time to time until he did obey. The Defendant replicd that under these circum- stances he thought he had a stronger ground for asking that the penalty in the present instance should be mitigated. The Mayor said the Bench declined to alter their decision. ' The Defendant (at the suggestion of Mr. Thurlow, draper, who was in court) requested to be informed how the costs amounted to £1. 0s. 6d.; and the magistrates' clerk read over the different fees which made up that sum, one of which appeared to be 4s. for the attendance of the vaccination officer, Mr, Making. The Defendant said he understood that this officer was employed by the Board of Guardians at a salary, for the purpose of attending to these cases. Mr. Making: Not for that purpose. The Defendant : For what purpose, then ? The purpose was not explained, and the next case was proceeded with. Henry EF. King, draper, Market-hill, was sum- moned for a similar non-compliance with the order of the magistrates for the vaccination of his child, Harry Wilham King. The Defendant said he admitted the non-compli- ance; and he might add, that his reasons for not having had his child vaccinated, were the same as he had mentioned on a previous occasion. He thought the Bench had inflicted upon Mr. Sands a fine much too heavy. He (himself) was certainly a poor man, and could not pay that fine. If the magistrates could make it somewhat lower in his case, he should feel obliged. The Mayor said the magistrates did not think they could make any exception in his case. The fine and costs would he the same as in the last. Mr. King: I think it is very heavy. Joseph Lawrence, a labouring man, was next charged with a similar offence; and said that he had not had his child vaccinated, according to the order of the Bench. 396   The Mayor asked why he had not complied with the order ? The Defendant: I always thought this was a free country, sir. The Mayor said the magistrates would make a difference with regard to the fine in this case. The penalty would be ls. ; the costs were the same as in the previous case. The Defendant said that he was not in a position to pay; upon which he was informed that the alternative was seven days' imprisonment. Mr. Thurlow asked if this man was to be sent to prison for conscience' sake, and his wife and family thrown upon the rates or private charity? It was getting a very serious matter. He understood that the vaccination officer had a salary of £20 a-year, which was to be raised to £50; and all this to come out of the poor rates. He was in hopes that the magistrates would have seen that the Act of Parlia- ment gave them power to act differently; and he wished the Mayor to reid certain medical opinions published in the Medical Times, a copy of which he produced. The Mayor said that he had read the decisions of the superior courts of law upon the Act in question, and these the magistrates must take before medical opinion in adjudicating upon these cases. He declined to read the papers produced. Mr. Thurlow said he was sorry, then. He added, that it was very hard that the poor man just fined should have to go to prison on such a charge as that preferred against him; and said that he would be answerable that the fine was paid for him, and go round to his fellow-tradesmen and collect subscriptions. (Applause.) The Mayor said he must ask that the applause cease at once. Samuel Seeley, another labouring man, was tharged with having neglected to have his child vaccinated according to order; and having no legal defence, was fined in the same amount as the preceding defendant. Mr. Thurlow said he would see that this fine was paid also. The Mayor said it was very kind of Mr. Thurlow to do so; and stated that the present was not at all a pleasant duty for the magistrates to perform. Mr. Thurlow said he was sorry to see the Mayor in such a position; and if he would be kind enough to read the medical papers he had with him, he thought he would change his views on the subject of vaccination. The Mayor said he would take them and read them at home with pleasure, but he could not read them in court in reference to the cases before him. Mr. Thurlow handed up the papers to his wor- ship, and remarked concerning their contents- The truth has come out at last, and thank God for it.'' The Mayor intimated that each defendant would be allowed seven days to pay the penalties inflicted. -Suffolk and Essex Free Press, March 12. (April 15, 1878. Important Vaccination Prosecution at Leeds. Yesterday, Mr. James Appleby, provision mer- chant, Meadow-lane, Leeds, was summoned before Mr. Bruce, the stipendary magistrate, at the Town Hall, for neglecting to cause his child, Rose Appleby, to be vaccinated. Inspector Holmes, the vaccination officer, appeared to support the information: Mr. Appleby was undefended. Mr. Bruce: Defendant: Mr. Bruce : Have you anything to say about it ? Defendant: IT am not accustomed to speaking. I hope your Worship will allow me to read the following statement:-" Sir, Independently of my own experience.of vaccination, I conscientiously object to the observance. I have three children. Two of them have been vaccinated, and for the third I am summoned here. Asaloyalsubject I have submitted to the law with regard to the two I have named, but I have bitterly repented of it ever since. The first was vaccinated by Mr. Gisburn, surgeon, Hunslet, the public vaccinator, and the result of it was that the child's blood was poisoned by it-scrofula or syphilis, I don't know which. She was for several weeks a pitiable, nay, a frightful object. Her head and face were a mass of corruption. Her arm was swollen and inflamed. Caustic was used three or four times to burn out the proud-flesh. She was so bad that for months we could not kiss her without kissing a mass of sores. I told Mr. Gisburn I blamed vaccination, and he never denied the charge. As to the second child, I objected to have it done, but my wife had it vaccinated without my know- ledge or consent. If anything, the result was worse than in the first case, for scrofula was communicated to her along with the vaccine, and she has suffered from that disease ever since. Mr. Richardson, surgeon, North-street, vaccinated her, and he has admitted over and over again that she is now scrofulous. 'There is no disease of that kind in my or my wife's family. I have had to give this child cod liver oil for three years, and she is not better yet. This is not my only objection to vaccination, for I have known families similarly injured by vaccination tion, and could bring witnesses to prove it if it were necessary. it may be that my children are suscep- tible to this horrible blood-poisoning to a greater degree than others, and if that be so, is it not cruel to ask me to vaccinate a third child? I may as well be asked to murder it at once. J ask your Worship to dismiss this case. If you will allow me, I will now read an extract or two from the Medical Times and Gazette, of February Ist, 1873, referring to the cases of vaccinal-syphilis brought before the Medico- Chirurgical Society, by Dr. Hutchinson, of London. Do you plead guilty or not guilty? - Guilty, sir. April 15, 1873.]  . oo) "The facts before the public," it says in a leading article, '' will tend to arouse them-if they have not already been aroused-from the false security into which they have been lulled ; and, as it was stated at the meeting, it is plain that our compulsory vacci- nation laws cannot be maintained unmodified. It is true, that the number of instances before us is small, but we also know the manifold inducements to keep them secret. In point of fact, nearly all the cases that have been reported have crept out acci- dentally ; and if a full and searching examination could be made-could we for the time being create a medical '" Palace of Truth''-we doubt not that many more facts could be acquired. Nevertheless, what we do know suffices to warn us of the possibility of the dreadful contamination, and warns us to provide accordingly." And then it concludes by saying-'" It is not fair to subject healthy infants to the risk of vaccination from others, which, though healthy at the time, may subsequently show signs of inherited taint;" and-'"'It is not fair to subject people's children to risks such as those which vaccination- syphilis implies, with no alternative save to go to prison. The risk admitted, the option must follow, or the law will fall to the ground." This wis from a leading article in the Medical Times and Gazette. It has always been denied before that other diseases could be communicated in vaccination, and this is the first public acknowledgment from the Medical Faculty to the contrary. They have always condemned those who have maintained the opinion which they have at length admitted. I hope, there- fore, your Worship will consider my case, and dismiss the summons. I have a childin the hall (the second child) that has been scrofulous for three years. It is now rather more than three years since it was vaccinated. The chairman of the Board of Guardians (Mr. Middleton) told me that "after a very lengthy discussion, the Board was very sorry to have to prosecute me."' Mr. Bruce: If so, then they have soon got over their sorrow, and here you are! Defendant: Just so. Mr. Bruce: I mean no disrespect either to you or | them ; but here is the fact that they have summoned | you. : Inspector Holmes: The Board had no desire to bring him here. Mr. Bruce: You have pleaded guilty to this | charge. It is just possible there may be some risk ; but the public vaccination officers must do their duty according to the law. Defendant: I hopeif you sce fit to impose a fine it will only be a nominal one, as several magistrates, especially London magistrates, have lately imposed very slight fines. Mr. Bruce: I can't take the law into my own hands. I suppose this gentleman has not been here before. (Inspector Holmes: No, sir. Mr. Bruce: I can't inflict a nominal fine, because if I commence to do that, the law may be set at defiance, I shall fine you 10s. and costs, The case then terminated.-Leeds Express, March 10. Dewsbury. Wm. Martin Marriott, who resides in Boothroyd- lane, Dewsbury, was charged with that, he being the parent of a child born on the 3rd of July, 1871, he did neglect to have it vaccinated.-Mr. Kew said he had several times called upon the defendant, who had given him to understand that he would have the child vaccinated.-The Defendant, in reply to the Bench, said he could not promise that he would have it vaccinated: and the Bench then fined him 20/- and costs, or one month.--J//V7illiam Henry Hemingway, photographer, Wellington-road, had a similar charge preferred against him.-The Defen- dant said he would not have his child vaccinated, for one child who underwent an operation of that kind had not lived long after it.-He was also fined 20/- and costs, or one month.--Before the West Riding Magistrates at Dewsbury, yesterday, Mark Wilkinson, joiner, of Spring Gardens, Earlsheaton, was charged with refusing to have a child of his, born on the 4th of January, 1872, vaccinated.- Defendant was fined 20s. and costs, or one month. Mr. Wilkinson refused to pay the money, and was conveyed to the cells, but some sympathisers paid the amount and he was libcrated. - Dewsbury Reporter, April 6. Whitley-bank. Thomas Henry Morris, of Whitley-bank, was summoned by Mr. Edward Warren for non-comphance with an order of the court, directing the vaccination of his child. Mr. Warren, vaccination officer for the Godshill district, deposed that on the 8th February an order was. made by the Court directing the child to be vaccinated, but the order had not been obeyed. He had seen the defendant since the order, and he stated he should not have the child vaccinated. - Defendant, in addressing the Chairman, said: Is it legal for you, as a member of the Board of Guardians, to try this ease, when you are one of the prosecuting party ?-The Chairman : Have you anything more to svy '-Defendant: No. -The Chairman: Then we fine you 20/- with 10/3 costs.-Defendant paid the money; and said if he was fined 50 times he should not comply.-Hamp- shire Independent, March 26. Bow Street. Charles Edward Frost appeared before Mr. Flowers charged with having refused to have his child vaccinated. Mr. Vincent Yardley, the parish vaccinating officer, proved the case. Defendant was fined at this court a year ago for neglecting to obey the law with respect to the same child. He said:-Sir, I will no$ have this child vaccinated. I have lost three children through vaccination. JI am determined this child shall live. You may send me to prison if you'will, and I will serve my time; but this child shall not be vacci- nated. My wife won't allow it. I donot care for 398 the knowledge of medical men. TI have a higher knowledge. Our Maker did not send children into this world to be cut about. Why is it that hospitals are increasing, and medical men are increasing, and the disease is increasing? Solely through the process of inoculation. Is it right to inflict sores on the arm? No. Of course, it makes business for these doctors. It is to their interest to cause disease, and they do cause it by vaccination. Even the law is different for this kind of case. A man who commits a theft is sent to prison for the crime, and there the punishment ends. Not so in these cases. I have been fined for my offence, and yet I am brought up again and again, and still punished for the same offence. Mr. Flowers: A thief would again be punished if he did as you do-repeat the offence. You are very unjust towards Mr. Yardley. You forget that he is empowered by the Act to summon you once a month instead of once a year, and I know myself that he is even very unwilling to do that. You are certainly very hard upon the medical profession, for I know of no class of men who do more work for nothing than medical gentlemen. Defendant: This gentleman, sir, is paid to do his duty by rates which J and others have to pay. Mr. Flowers: You may as well say that of me. Defendant: I am not addicted to drink. I can take care of my child. She shall not be vaccinated, and I will guarantee that she never has smallpox nor any other disease. When the Prince of Wales was stricken down with illness, three of the greatest medical men attended him, but not one knew the nature of his disease. Itwas caused by vaccination. Sir, I am gifted with the divine power of prophets. When I was told that the Prince would not live, I prophesied that he would, and he did. If I can prophesy that the Prince will live, surely I can prophesy that my child shall not have disease. Mr. Flowers: You have certainly gone further to-day than you ever went before. I did not know that you were a prophet. But, supposing that I agreed with you respecting vaccination-and I cer- tainly do not-I should still be bound to do my duty in accordance to the law. Defendant: If I consented to have my child vaccinated, my wife would not. If I could not persuade her, I am certain no one else could. And, above all, sir, if I disapprove of vaccination, and yet consent to the vaccination of my child, am I setting an example to my fellow-thinkers ? Mr. Flowers: Well, I certainly cannot answer that question. The case was then adjourned, in order that Mr. Yardley might endeavour to persuade the defen- dant's wife to consent to the vaccination of the child. -Daily Telegraph, April 7. High Leigh. Wiliam Witter, of High Leigh, was summoned for refusing to have his child vaccinated, according to the requirements of the Act.-Mr. A. HK. Cutter supported the charge, and proved that the child was   [April 15, 1873. born on the 7th of January, 1872, and not receiving any notice of its having been vaccinated, on the 15th of August he reminded Mr. Witter of the neglect. He afterwards had information that Mr. Witter declined to comply.-On being asked for his reason, Mr. Witter said he would sooner pay the fine, than run the risk consequent on compliance.- Mr. Cutter said he would be willing to defer proceedings if Mr. Witter would agree to have the child vaccinated.- Defendant still persisted in refusing.-The Chairman said they had not to make the law, but were bound to see it enforced. The defendant would be fined 10/ and costs: and he hoped a little reflection would induce a different state of mind. - Warrington Guardian, April 5. Wigan Borough Police News.-Monday. Before Messrs. J. Lamb and T. Wall. Vaccination Oases.- William Henry Knight, of Whelley, was summoned by Mr. Halliwell (vacci- nation officer) for neglecting to obey a magistrates' order for the vaccination of his two children. Mr. Lamb: Have you anything to say ?-Mr. Knight : I would just advise the Bench to do as Major Pilkington did at St. Helens, and fine me 1s.-Mr. Lamb: We shall fine you 20s. in each case.-Mr. Knight: Well, please yourself; they will not be vaccinated. The same penalty was imposed on Amos Jacques, of Wigan-lane, who was summoned for neglecting to have two children vaccinated. Levit Booth, of Wallgate, was also summoned for refusing to comply with an order of the magistrates that his child be vaccinated. The Defendant admitted that the order had not been complied with; and said he did not intend to have the child vaccinated.-Mr. Lamb: We shall fine you 20s. and costs.-Mr. Booth: Thank you. It is the fees that bring us here so often. If the decisions were tempered with mercy, we could do better with it. It is a very iniquitous law. The Vaccinator and his Wife. CANTO THE THIRD. ide: Oh Betsy! listlessly my cheerless brain The pressure of inquiry doth sustain ; The lurid prospects of our waning art Daunt my foreboding soul. I feel the smart Renewed in each position we surrender To the untiring foe. Shall no defender, Upraising his broad shield, extrude all doubt, The storm of argument repel and rout, And in our favour turn the wavering scale, If not with proof, at least with force and jail ? How changed our attitude since those blest hours, When first we linked our fates ! when budding flowers From the fair face of Nature decked your zone, And blushed to find their bloom by yours outshone! Alas! the fleeting bliss of thoughtless youth, - Perplexed by no researches after truth, April 15, 1873.]  . 399 No sceptic doubt, no intellectual strain Merging in reason's pangs the tortured brain, Has disappeared ; and now the sombre skies Involve in gloom obscure our destinies. Methinks I see the angry lightnings flash, And héar our echoed ruin in their crash: Vaccina's fading glories soon must yield, And haughtiest foes shall triumph o'er the field. Bright hours too swiftly fled! for ye I grieve ; But vain the sigh-the past who can retrieve ! The past, when universal quiet reigned O'er all our theories, when none complained ; And, calm as breath of stilly summer's eve, When rainbow tints their witching colors weave On fair horizon in their changeful play Around the glowing orb of setting day, The human reason, wrapp'd in innocence, Succumbed to Jenner, and succumbed to sense. She. Cold be these limbs, and peaceful on their bier, Ere Jenner's star recede from its high sphere ; Closed be my eyes to Fate's unfolding scroll Clouding our future! Yet my inmost soul At base concession doth revolt and quake, Although we follow in our Leader's wake. The maladies by vaccination given Should be concealed, and not revealed--oh heaven! Statistically, oft we've proved and prayed That no disease is by our lymph conveyed ; And should the fact be now by us allowed, We stand the butt of scornful angry crowd: That heretic, the Anti-vaccinator, Of our submissive state will be spectator ! What art shall save us from the deep disgrace ? But ol! my earthly saint! I see your face, Pale as the cherubim at Adam's fall- He, Should He in victory my sight appal, The mighty aid of magic I''d invoke, And chain the powers of nature to my yoke ; to ocean's lowest depths I'd fix his bed, The restless billows raging o'er his head ; Or in the snowy clefts of cold Ramgunge, In everlasting ice his soul ''d plunge: I'd pin him to the rugged mountain peak, Where soaring eagles tear with ravenous beak Their guiltless prey ; where flapping vultures scream, Where lonely ravens croak, and spectres gleam. She. Unquiet spirit! list awhile to me; Unguarded anger is impolicy ; Your pose is that of Phoebus, when he stood By the slain monster in the stagnant flood, His bow resounding with the arrow's flight That doomed the Python to eternal night : Your eye dilates, your cheeks flush, low you sob, And with pulsations swift your temples throb. Be calm, my bosom's monarch ! soon shall we Our fervid leader's manifesto see ; Accustomed in the storm his bark to steer, His skill shall check the foe in mid career ; Whatever change of front his mind decrees, Shall by statistic bold be proved with ease, No hour is this for craven imbecility ; ' Our arm of mightiest import we must wield, Unveil the statue of Infallibility, - And place the Gorgon's head upon her shield; With panic fear the nations low shall bow, And hymn once more great Jenner and his Cow ! He. Unsparing partisans are often wont, In strife political, to change their front: The front is changed, since British spirit high The law of church rate stiffly did defy, The law of pressgang, and the law of tithe Of corn and sucking pig to priesthood blithe ; The front will change again with menace dire, When School Board levies stir the Briton's ire. She. The parties out of office flaunt the cause Of opposition to injurious laws ; But when in place, they change their front, and say--. Our duty is those same bad laws to obey. Thus conscience, writhing in the coils of power, Must wait till change of law for freedom's hour He The conscience, once the rule of manly act, In her own citadel is now attacked ; The human soul, her dwelling in the past, Has lost its hold upon the heavenly guest, Its own existence menaced and denied ; And soul and conscience soon shall cease to guide, Engulphed together in the swelling storm Of new opinions rising into form. She. The conscience formerly belonged the clan ; Each leader thought and pondered for his man ; In later times, beneath the feudal yoke, The priest was conscientious for his flock : Gregarious in thought and action they, Their highest aim some dogma to obey, And level down superior minds to all The superstitious follies of the thrall. Next came the era to the student dear, When conscience was our guardian angel here ; Short was the reign of student's thoughtful view, Unpleasing to the vain and vulgar crew; Of innate power the conscience still is fleeced, The law is now its keeper-not the priest. He. Last night, in converse with associates twain, Our host discoursed in cold satiric vein ;- "Tn ancient Israel, each noble mind Might be a prophet, and reprove his kind; In modern England, independent thought Is feared and hated, or by rulers bought." She. : My spouse, you steer your ship on dangerous rocks ; Your friend's broad views are scarcely orthodox ; A properly-certificated man ; Propounds no novel, independent plan Of treatment pathologic, but adheres To articles approved in early years, And vaccinates by rule, like his compeers, Our state-framed, changeless law compulsory, The law of progress sternly doth defy; And rightly, too-for progress doth imply An endless wish all laws to modify. Yet what opinion would be safe, were we To launch our theories on the stormy sea Of scepticism and incredulity ? Should we acknowledge that our art sublime, By thought, by skill, by science, or by time 400 The Anti-Vaccinator. [April 15, 1873. Can be advanced, or modified, or raised, Our eyes with dimmest tears will then be glazed, Forced to admit that even Jenner may Be far behind the knowledge of our day, Oh! if in childhood we are taught the truth, Why should we ever change the bright beliefs of youth ? fe. My faith in vaccination I received From dearest nurse, whose loss my boyhood grieved ; Though dead in body, she is here in soul, Even now she claims my conscience to control : Oft her departed spirit round me streams, Presaging near events in nightly dreams: Such dream of late appalled my troubled breast, And long deprived me of my wonted rest. Methought that whirling through a tunnel dark, With thundering noise and speed, and many a spark Of living coal attendant, I was thrown . From my companion's side, and left alone To grope my solitary way. With dread The tunnel's length [ carefully did thread, And, pleased, emerging from its darksome night, Mysterious scenes and figures rose to sight, Such as inmemory's deepest stratum he, Embalmed in strain of ancient poesy, Of radiant pleasures in Elysian fields,- Of souls unbodied,-of the Judge who wields The sceptre stern of absolute decree, And shakes the fatal urn of human destiny. Passing in vision o'er the Stygian flood, In Hades' melancholy realms I stood : I saw old Sisyphus, with ceaseless moan, "Improperly" deflect the artful stone ; His '"'unsuccessful" efforts chilled my soul ; The careworn stone shall never reach the goal. Still, he renews the same unchanging round, Rolls and '' re-rolls"-the stone doth still rebound- And mocking demons echo from the depths profound. Next, Tantalus, who-aims his thirst to slake In the wet luxury of the placid lake ; Impatiently he reaches out his arm, But everlastingly recedes the liquid charm. T saw the fifty daughters of the king, Around the circle of the fabled spring; Drawing with all the strength of all their souls The fluid lymph in buckets full of holes: Not so when first that well was sunk, they plead ; A single bucket satisfied life's need In those believing days: but buckets change ; And soon seven years defined their buckets' range. The buckets now, by constant work outworn, Scarce raise enough to last till morrow's dawn. Yet faith supplies the water thus denied ; Each lovely bosom still dilates with pride ; The less the buckets hold, the swifter they Do ply their thankless task the lifelong day ; And ever as they work, exclaims each maid- "' How could the nations live without our aid!" I saw outstretched the giant Tityus lie ; And whirring wings flew soaring up on high ; Disturbed by human tread, they rose in haste, Circling they wheeled around, and feared to taste. With hurried steps retreating from their scream, A brighter omen closed my anxious dream :- Two infants I observed, of beauteous mien, Two faces I remember to have seen In public bustling vaccination room, Their arms undraped, heedless of coming doom ; Their cheeks as yet unblanched. I recognised The orthodox seven marks so highly prized By mild submissive mothers. On their way, What seemed a heavy weight they did convey ; Approaching me with load on shoulders borne, I recognised with joy the wondrous horn- The horn of Jenner's Cow! By heaven's choir, 1'd pawn my soul that relic to acquire ! The beauteous infant pair the horn upraised, And with united voice its virtues praised. Yet, explanation of its action they Gave not, nor principle, nor theory ; Experience, that best of teachers, will To each believing soul those virtues tell. I seized the horn, and blew ;-the interior roared, And suddenly, as from volcano poured, A cloud of dense statistics filled the air, Which equal size and figure seemed to bear: Scattered by adverse winds, they circled round, Obscuring earth and sky with gloom profound; Some few I gathered, faltering with delight : My dream shall prove them true-my dream of night ! She. At length, from blank despair my hopes ascend, My genial spouse, as over thee I bend, And smoothe each ridge of thy contracted brow, Where care sits incubating; truly now: From this prophetic vision we may learn Abasement into victory to turn. Deep is the meaning of that dream obscure, Received from realms of Lamia and Lemure! Surely 'twas sent by Jenner's honoured shade! Oft I in prayers invoke his mighty aid. Our time-worn theory we must resign, Like pilgrims seeking a more potent shrine ; Obedient to the universal law Of change and substitution. We must draw From midnight vision the conclusion bold That sacrifice be made of theories old ; Our lymph must be withheld, and in its place A fairer emblem shall our practice grace ; Protection still our banners shall adorn; And they who now our Lymph reject with scorn, Shall kneel before the virtues of our Horn. He. May Jenner cast a pitying eye upon our state forlorn ! From Alexandre Vinet.-' There is nothing that so degrades a body corporate as the acceptance of an odious function. Toleration, like all other virtues, is a sacrifice, since its effect is to leave in existence what we would fain see destroyed... A multitude is often more easily deceived than a single man; and of falsehoods it is the coarsest and most improbable that are the most readily believed; for the popular imagination can bear nothing mediocre, and in every- thing it is the enormons that captivates it." The Anti-Vaccinator can be supplied (prepaid) to residents in the country districts, at the following rates, viz. :- Single copy, for 6 months.......... Do. 12 Hb soda cadGos All Orders should be accompanied by a remittance in stamps, addressed to 73, Cookridge-street, Leeds. 7--_eooo ee Se Printed by J. Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury. accinator, and  . + Edited by Jno: Pickerin g, F.R.G.S., F.8.8., F.S.A., Springfield Mount, Leeds. Bublished Forinighily, by F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster Row, London, and John Pickering, Office of the Anti-Vaccinator, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. ts All Communications to be sent to the Hditor, 73, Cookridge Street, Leeds. Ne. 26. New Series. | May 1 $< LETS, [Price One Penny. ' Contents, wis Page Senmerisim, web ks ith hice ec eeineais ems asieews 401 an CREEIUS AIG MTS GiermMsi. . " sic\es.siecciscels cle e100 ase: 405 Mysteries of the Vaccination Miracle.......... 405 Are our Medical Men Taught to Weigh Evidence? 406 Tyee ROSS CHINS: eae See ODE een as none 408 Scrofula Transmitted by Vaccination .......... 406 Is it Prosecution or Persecution ?........... ... 406 A Whole Community Inoculated with Poisoned SVEN eas ssraisy awlsisveve eves) ¢isjeteis ey ssaveree sreze's Slevererelejaiereie 407 The Editor's Address to the Reader .......... 408 Compulsory Vaccination: Its Injustice and Sin 408 Bride water soards-oF Guardians, ~. oc. -cccescs 410 The Local Government Board and Mr. Roberts 411 VOCS Cie ANAC) Rote nOD ROOM eno OO oOS sens SEL Isle of Wight Board of Guardians ............ 412 Walsall Board of Guardian' 226... 52 ceu sens 413 Vaccination Proseeutions:-Cheltenham, New- poxt, Gainsbro' Petty Sessions 2..6.0.....00- 413 Answers to Correspondents ........essece Gc 416 gennerism: What Is It? By John Pickering, F.R.G.S. What is Jenner's Teaching as to the Source of the smallpow and the Vaccine Virus, and as to the Relation between the Vaccine as a pro- phylactic, and the smallpox Disease ? These are considerations of the highest importance. There is no mistake as to what Jenner's theory is, although recent writers have attempted to throw around it a certain amount of doubt and obscurity. What is the source of the smallpox and the vaccine? Now, as Jenner's original pamphlet-- for such it really is-can only be in the hands of a few readers, I purpose quoting what some may call the preamble, but what I consider to be the entire work; and as this will only occupy three or four pages, I shall be excused for taking such a liberty with Jenner's remains. or convenience of reference, I have numbered the paragraphs; and the italics are my own introduction, in order to attract the reader's notice. After a brief but pompous address to the King, His Majesty George the Third, Jenner commences as follows :- 1. The deviation of man from the state in which he was originally placed by Nature, seems to hav¥e proved to him a prolific source of diseases. From the love of splendour, from the indulgences of luxury, and from his fondness for amusement, he has Jamiliarised himself with a great number of animals which may not originally have been intended as his associates, * 2. 'The wolf, disarmed of ferocity, is now pillowed in the lady's lap. The cat-the little tiger of our island, whose natural home is the forest-is equally domesticated and caressed. The cow, the hog, the sheep, and the horse, are all, for a variety of purposes, brought under his care and dominion. 3. There is a disease to which the horse, from his state of domestication, is frequently subject-the farriers have termed it " the grease." It is an inflam- mation and swelling of the heel, accompanied at its commencement with small cracks or jissures, from which issues a limpid fluid, possessing properties of a very peculiar kind. This fluid seems capable of generating a disease in the human body (after it has undergone the modification I shall presently speak of ), which bears so strong a resemblance to the smail-pox, that I think it highly probable it may be the source of that disease. * "An Inquiry into the Causes and Effects of the Variolee Vaccine," &c. Third Edition, By Edward Jenner, M.D., F.R.8., &c. 1801. 402   4, In this dairy country a great number of cows are kept, and the office of milking is performed indiscriminately by men and maid servants. One of the former having been appointed to apply dressings to the heels of a horse affected with the malady I have mentioned, and not paying due attention to cleanliness, incautiously bears his part in milking the cows, with some particles of the infectious matter adhering to his fingers. When this 1s the case, tt Srequently happens that a disease 1s communicated to the cows, and from the cows to the dairy-maids, which spreads through the farm, until most of the cattle and domestics feel its unpleasant consequences. This disease has obtained the name of the "cowpox." It appears on the nipples of the cows, in the form of irregular pustules. At their first appearance they are of a palish blue, or rather of a colour somewhat approaching to livid, and are surrounded by an inflammation. These pustules, unless a: timely remedy be applied, frequently degenerate into phagadenic ulcers, which prove extremely troublesome. The animals become indisposed, and 'the secretion of milk is much lessened. Inflamed spots now begin to appear on different parts of the hands of the domestics employed in milking, and sometimes on the wrists, which run on to suppuration, first assuming the appearance of the small vesications produced by a burn, Most commonly they appear about the joints of the fingers and at the extremities; but whatever parts are affected, if the situation will admit, these superficial suppurations put on a circular form, with their edges more elevated than their centre, and of a colour distantly approaching to blue. Absorption takes place, and tumours appear in each axilla. The system becomes affected, the pulse is quickened ; shiverings, succeeded by heat, general lassitude, and pains about the loins and limbs, with vomiting, come on. The head is painful, and the patient is now and then even affected with delirium. These symptoms, varying in their degrees of violence, generally continue from one day to three or four, leaving ulcerated sores about the hands, which, from the sensibility of the parts, are very troublesome, and commonly heal slowly, frequently becoming phaga- denic, like those from whence they sprung. During the progress of the disease, the lips, nostrils, eyelids, and other parts of the body, are sometimes affected with sores; but these evidently arise from their being heedlessly rubbed or scratched with the patient's infected fingers. No eruptions on the skin have followed the decline of the feverish symptoms in any instance that has come under my inspection- one only excepted, and in this case a very few appeared on the arms: they were very minute, of a vivid red colour, and soon died away, without advancing to maturation; so that I cannot deter- mine whether they had any connection with the preceding symptoms, 5. Thus the disease makes tts progress from the horse (as I conceive) to the nipple of the cow, and from the cow to the human subject. 6. Morbid matter of various kinds, when absorbed into the system, may produce effects in some degree similar; but what renders the cowpox virus so extremely singular ts, that the person who has been thus affected is for ever secure from the infection of the - smallpox ; neither exposure to the various efluvia, nor the insertion of the matter into the skin, producing this distemper. 7. In support of so extraordinary a fact, I shall lay before my reader a great number of instances: but first it is necessary to observe that pustulous sores frequently appear spontaneously on the nipples of the cows, and instances have occurred, though very rarely, of the hands of the servants employed in milking being affected with sores in consequence, and even of their feeling an indisposition from absorption. These pustules are of much milder nature than these which arise from that contagion which constitutes the true cowpox. They are always free from the bluish or livid 'int so conspicuous in the pustules in that disease. No erysipelas attends them, nor do they show any phagadenic disposition, as in the other case; but quickly terminate in a scab, without creating any apparent disorder in the cow. 'This complaint appears at various seasons of the year; but most commonly in the spring, when the cows are first taken from their winter food, and fed with grass. It is very apt to appear, also, when they are suckling their young. But this disease is not to be considered as similar in any respect to that of which. Iam treating, as it is incapable of producing any specific effects on the human constitution. However, tt is of the greatest consequence to point it out here, lest the want of discrimination should occasion an idea of security from the infection of the smallpox, which might prove delusive. The above seven paragraphs comprise Jenner's great work! He got £30,000 for his invention, and his bust occupies a position in the temple of fame, side by side with those of Bacon, Newton, Harvey, and the like! The concluding portion of his pamphlet is taken up with the history of 23 cases which had come under his own notice, and which satisfied Jenner that the source of vaccine and smallpox was to be found in the '"' greasy heels" of the horse, and that the patient once inoculated with the cowpox, was ''for ever" afterwards secure against the smallpox. Jenner's discovery, and his claim to our confidence, rest upon the seven paragraphs now re-produced, with the cases that are made to support his theory.. And they do support it in a most remarkable manner, and each patient cowpoxed is secure "for ever,' the virus being traced up to its "true" source-the horse; and each individual, though tested by being placed in a contagious atmos- phere, or inoculated with smallpox virus, shows how protected he is by resisting both expedients. There is no failure - not one. é [May 1, 1878, - May 1, 1873.]  , 403 Protection with Jenner meant protection. Not one per cent. of his patients were to be found under the influence of an attack of smallpox after he had marked them ''secure." His very first case, that of '' Joseph Merret,' had the ''cowpox"' (matter from the horse's heels) about 1770; and in 1795 a general inoculation with smallpox virus occurred at Berkeley, and the wife and family were all down in the smallpox , but Merret, although inoculated with smallpox virus, and after an interval of 26 years, was perfectly secure. The second case, that of Sarah Portlock, was more singular still. She had the cowpox in 1768, and in 1795 one of her own children had the smallpox, but although Sarah nursed the child, and had both arms inoculated with smallpox virus, she was, like the rest, perfectly secure. Time was not of the essence of the contract. It did not matter how great was the interval between the cowpox disease and any of his tests: all his patients were '' for ever' secure. Now, from the quotations from Jenner's pamphlet, it is clear that he held the dogmas, firstly-that the horse, in a state of disease, called ''the grease," was the source of the smallpox. This is laid down in the third and fifth paragraphs. Man had deviated from the state in which nature had originally placed him; he had become familiarised with animals which might not have been intended as his associates; and the consequence was, that one of them, the horse-for that animal is really the sinner-contracted '"'the grease," and hence there resulted from that a disease to man called smallpox!. This philosophy is so utterly preposterous and puerile, that I am almost ashamed to transcribe it here. But Jenner believed it, or said he did, which amounts to the same thing. At page 49, he further says :- May it not, then, be reasonably conjectured, that the source of the smallpox ts morbid matter of a peculiar kind, generated by a disease in the horse, and that accidental circumstances may again and again have arisen-still working new changes upon it- until it has acquired the contagious and malignant form under which we now commonly sce it making its devastationsamongstus? And, from a consideration of the change which the infectious matter undergoes, from producing a disease on the cow, may we not conceive that many contagious diseases, now prevalent amongst us, may owe their present appearance, not to a simple, but to a compound origin? For example-Is tt difficult to imagine that the measles, the scarlet fever, and the ulcerous sore throat, with a spotted skin, have all sprung from the same source, assuming some variety in their forms according to the nature of their new combinations: The same question will apply respecting the origin z : : : of many other contagious diseases which bear a strong analogy to each other. Secondly, Jenner propounds the theory that the -horse with its "grease" is not only the source of smallpox, but of the vaccine. I adduce some additional reasons, in further eluci- dation of the theory, and which were published by him in a second pamphlet, after ample time had been afforded him to recant, if he had seen the folly of his previous statements. Between the publication of his first and second pamphlets, Jenner had been bitterly taunted about his opinions, but notwithstanding all this he still clung to them. He says :- _ Whether the cowpox is a spontaneous disease in the cow, or is to be attributed to matter conveyed to the animal, as I have conceived, from the horse, is a question, which though I shall not now attempt fully to discuss, yet I shall digress so far as to adduce some further observations, and to give my reasons more at large for taking up.an opinion that to some has appeared fanciful. The aggregate of these observations, though not amounting to positive proof, forms presumptive evidence of so forcible a kind, that I imagine it might in any other person have made the same impression it did on me, without fixing the imputation of credulity.* First. I conceived this was its source, from ob- serving that where the cowpox had appeared among the dairies here (unless it could be traced to the in- troduction of an infected cow or servant) it had been preceded at the farm by a horse diseased is the man- ner already described, which horse had been attended by some of the milkers. Secondly. From its being a popular opinion throughout this great dairy country, and from its being insisted on by those who here attend sick cattle. Thirdly. From the total absence of the disease in those countries where the men-servants are not employed in the dairies. Fourthly. From having observed that morbid matter generated by the horse frequently communi- cates, in a casual way, a disease to the human subject so like the cowpox, that in many cases it would be difficult to make the distinction between one and the other. Fifthly. From being induced to suppose from experiments, that some of those who had been thus affected from the horse, resisted the smallpox. Sixthly. From the progress and general appear- ance of the pustule on the arm of the boy whom I inoculated with matter taken from the hand of a man infected by a horse; and from the similarity to the cowpox of the general constitutional symptoms which followed. The only effect upon my judgment, on a perusal of the above reasons, and the specula- *" Further Observations on the Variole Vaccine, pp. 90, 91. + 404   (May 1, 1873. tive basis upon which they are founded, is that of astonishment to reflect how any man, claiming to be a thinker, could hope to succeed in building a theory upon such wretched assumptions. How different are the ideas which are produced by a comprehensive survey of the works of Newton, Harvey, or Hunter-works which in every page bear the marks of the truest philosophy, the most careful discrimination, and the sublimest genius! Jenner's writings leaye a most unfavourable impression upon the mind, and yet they are applauded by many; but they must henceforth be regarded as nothing better than the uncertain and unphilosophical reasonings of a mere pretender in the realms of science. Jenner started with the theory that the disease called the '"' grease'"' in the horse was the source of vaccine in the cow, and the source of smallpox in man; than which, a more stupid and fallacious theory was never propounded. Jenner's mind was not of that order to make any great discovery, and had it not been for the little spice of romance which he imported into it, there is every probability that the theory would have been strangled as soon as it saw the light of day. He said he was led up to the discovery by a servant girl] in the village of Sodbury, who rejoiced in her fancied immunity from smallpox infection, and remarked-''I can neyer have the smallpox, because I have had the cowpox." The village apothecary, pleased with the antithesis, made the most of it; and, haying started his theory, worked his experi- ments to support it, and must have succeeded beyond his most sanguine expectations. With very little greater strain upon the imagination, he might as well have enlarged his discovery, and taught that 'the grease' was not only the source of vaccine in the cow and of smallpox in man, but was also the source of the "' Asiatic cholera: and we hesitate not to say that the same arguments which are now adduced to up- hold the theory of vaccination would be equally demonstrative if applied to the fatal disease above mentioned. For ''smallpox" may be read '' cholera,'' and Jenner's vaccination will not be compromised by the change. There would be this manifest advantage, that Jenner's fame would be immensely widened and diversified, inasmuch ag his discovery would be found to embrace a remedy for both the diseases above referred to. It is singularly conclusive, it might be urged, as both these exanthematous diseases began to decline at the same epoch. What could be advanced in reply to such an assumption ? Really nothing, and vaccination would come off master of the position. It is an arbitrary generalisation to confine the benefits of the vaccine to '' smallpox." Upon such assumptions as those now repro- duced there hangs the reasonableness or unreasonableness of a rite which has obtained for seventy years, and one which is becoming more hateful every time we are brought into contact with it. The most superficial reading of Jonner must convince every unprejudiced mind that he is aman utterly unworthy of credence, a philoso- pher whose observations have no claim upon our understanding, and who, if he had to appear before the public in the times in which we live, - and with no better philosophy to recommend him, would be laughed at from one end of England to the other. No greater injury can be done to Jenner's fame than thus to publish, in his own words, the account of his discovery, and the grounds upon which it rests. It is only right to say, that when I obtained an original copy of Jenner's pamphlets, I sat down with the firm resolve to know from him- ~ self his teaching with regard to vaccination,-a subject which engages so much attention from all classes of the community. After spending an afternoon on his three little pamphlets,* the sense of disappointment was almost unbearable, and the first question I put to myself was some- thing hke the following :-''Is it possible that the philosophy of vaccination depends upon the unscientific conclusions, the ever-varying and contradictory statements, and the childish and erratic deductions, of Jenner?" In the despair of the hour, I sought for Baron's "Life of Jenner," thinking that some new light might be revealed by a friendly hand, or might be: shadowed forth in his correspondence when the author himself was no more. These two volumes were read with that patience and eagerness which should ever distinguish the student in search for truth; and I regret to confess that, instead of my views of Jenner being altered or transformed by the record of his life, the character of his correspondence, and the history of his vaccination dogma, the effect wasquite of an opposite character. Whon I closed that " Life" story, a sense of wretchedness camo over mo which I cannot conyey to another, for I saw before me a man to whose memory no injustice is done when it is said that he was more in- debted to circumstances for his success and his fame, than to the possession of any abilities of his own, natural or acquired. Both Jenner and his biographer, and the public too, seem to have been satisfied with the idea that a man must be * T believe there are many, both in the profession and out of it, who imagine that Jenner's writings are as voluminous as the Institutes of Calvin, or the Commentaries of Scott. May 1, 1873.}  . 405 great because he was the pupil and friend of one of the greatest men of that age-as if to appreciate John Hunter were to participate in his genius! Nothing of the sort. The complexion of Hunter's letters settles that question for ever. Out of thirty letters to Jenner, Hunter never once refers to vaccination. The correspondence is only one shade removed from that of anobleman to his gamekeeper, supposing the former to have a decided taste in natural history. Jenner was clever in stuffing or pre- paring a hedgehog or a cuckoo! Would to heaven that he had kept to that occupation simply ! for the instant he tried to get beyond it he over-reached himself; and the very fear which once made him wretched-the suspicion that in leaving behind him the practice of vac- cination, it should, after all, prove to be a legacy of disease and death, instead of a blessing, to future ages –has been realised to its fullest extent. Lucretius and his Germs. This celebrated Epicurean philosopher maintained that the earth and its contents sprang casually into being. In strict agreement with this view of the origin of things in general, is his famous deduction of the origin of epidemic diseases from germs, as we learn from the following passage in Watson's trans- lation :-" Many atoms must necessarily fly abroad which are productive of disease and death. Corrupt air rises in remote parts, and passes over sea, and spreads among oxen and sheep. It joins our air, and infects it. The infection penetrates into food, or water, or remains suspended in the air; and when we breathe we inhale the air mingled with it, and necessarily absorb those seeds of disease into our body." There is a close resemblance between these views and the prevalent theory under which we have for the last seven years been unavailingly trying to lessen the farmer's annual losses from epizootic disease. No one dares to tell the farmer that his plagues originate in the filth and stench of his cattle sheds. Ohno! corrupt air rises in the steppes of Russia-anywhere but at home. Gibbon, the historian, holds a different opinion from that of Lucretius. He says :-The Hgyptian plague is generated from the putrefaction of animal substances. ; We read in the King's speech of 1721, that the Government of George I. burned and destroyed two merchant ships, arrived from Cyprus and other parts of Turkey, '"'infected with the plague, which had cotton, wool, and other goods on board dangerous to spread the infection." The sum of £23,935 was granted by the Commons as a "satisfaction" to the ants revis UsapeW aban: Geis Qolnwertd caresses as ellen, [English] owners of the vessels. There was in those days the usual failure to keep away the Lucretian germs by any other method than cleanliness, and the introduction of the infection into Europe was laid to the smugglers. Precautions were taken on our own coasts. In the following October the King's speech says :- "The unspeakable misery and desolation that has of late raged in some parts of Europe, cannot but be a sufficient warning to us to use all possible pre- cautions to prevent the contagion from being brought in amongst us; and as all other provisions will be altogether vain and fruitless if the abomi- nable practice of running goods be not at once totally suppressed, I most earnestly recommend to you to let no other consideration stand in competition with a due care of preserving so many thousand lives." The Commons answered :-" We find ourselves engaged, by all the ties of duty and interest, to second your Majesty's provident intentions for sup- pressing the infamous and pernicious practice of running goods, which, besides that it defrauds the public revenues, and discourages the honest trader, may at this juncture endanger the health and lives of many thousands of your Majesty's innocent subjects." On the 26th Noy. the Commons passed a Bill " to enable his Majesty effectually to prohibit commerce for the space of one year with any country that is, or shall be, infected with the plague ;" by which the king was empowered to order his officers to fire upon and sink any ship coming from an infected place. It was alleged by the Turkey merchants that this would prevent all commerce with Turkey, where it was known to everybody that the plague was always in some part or other. To this it was answered- That there was a vast difference between the common plague which is epidemical in Turkey, and the contagion which at present rages in the south parts of France, to prevent the bringing over of which this Bill was chiefly intended. Mr. Broderick added-That for his part, he was more afraid that the king would be too merciful, rather than too severe; and he thought that no time ought to be lost in a case of this nature, wherein the lives of all of us were concerned. Such was the Lucretianism of the last century ! Yet the practice of "running goods" was not totally suppressed, and the plague did not return. D; Mysteries of the Vaccination Miracle. What is that change in a living body which gives exemption from a certain disease for the remainder of life, when the individual has once passed through it? Or, yet more specifically-In what physical conditions does A, having had the smallpox, or been vaccinated, differ from himself before such protection was given, or from B who never obtained it ? The question is yet unsolyed.-Sir H. Holland's Recollections of Past Life. 406 Are our Medical Men taught to weigh Evidence ? I have seen so much in my own time of crude novelties "in medicine, eagerly adopted on the shallowest. proof, and rapidly succeeding one another in popular fashion, injuriously alike to the profession and the public, that remonstrance becomes a duty. The sole remedy is to be found in a better appreciation of that evidence which really establishes medical truth. To inculcate distrust is hardly a pleasant office, but it is often wholesome or necessary: and such is the case with many of the tenets handed down to us by our fathers in medicine, as well as with the various novelties of opinion or practice growing up successively in our own time. There is a curious incapacity in some men's minds for comprehending evidence at all; while we are forced to admit worldly interests as a cause concerned in these professional aberrations. I believe that much will be done to ennoble medicine in the future. In progress to this point, something must be abandoned of the pretensions hitherto assumed, and many errors put aside.-Sir H. ZHolland's Recollections of Past Life. Mr. Roberts' Case. The Bridgwater Gazette makes the following editorial comment on the letter from the Local Government Board, referring to Mr. Roberts' case, which our readers will find in another column :- The Vaccination question is settled at last, and Mr. Roberts may again inhabit his own house in Eastover without fear of further prosecution. The letter from the Local Government Board, which we publish in the present issue, politely informs the Board of Guardians that they must not act on their own judgment, but must cease to prosecute a parent who has been fined twice for refusing to vaccinate his child. Of course, this amounts to a legal evasion of the statute; and vaccination, instead of being compulsory, is permissive. Anyone who chooses to pay a fine can keep his children unpolluted by the vaccinator's hand; and the question now arises whether such a mode of action does not savour very . strongly of class legislation-one law for the rich, and another for the poor. In all justice, these vac- cination laws ought to be entirely repealed, and the public left to follow their own convictions in the matter.-Bridgwater Gazette, April 16. Scrofula Transmitted by Vaccination. To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. 16, Rue Marguerite, Guernsey, April 24, 1873. Dear Sir,-There has lately come under my notice here a frightful instance of the transmission of scrofula by vaccination. It is that of a poor woman, now aged 38 years, vaccinated 'by Dr. Munk in the   So sores. Both her elbows are stiff, and cannot be straightened, and she has quite lost the use of the fingers of the right hand, which are twisted in all directions. She has had. 26 abscesses or sores running all at once. They appear to have had compulsory vaccination in Guernsey much earlier than in England, as, although the mother objected strongly to the operation, she:was compelled by the constables to go to the vaccination station with the ttle girl, then less than five years old. About-three weeks after the operation (according to the mother's statement), she swelled all over the body, and became very ill. Sores appeared on her arms, legs, neck, and other parts, and some bones came out of her ears. She is, indeed, a pitiable object; but hy her Christian resignation and cheerfu'ness of man- ner (the fruit of Divine grace) she isan example to many whose lot is apparently happier. Seldom has the "temple of God" been more defaecd by a Satanic invention.-I am, Mr. Editor, yours obe- diently, M ; D : NV. B.-This woman was seen by me on the 8rd and 23rd April, 1878. Is it Prosecution or Persecution ? To the Editor of the Anti-Vaccinator. Sir,-Some days ago I read in the press of a man, named John Whitmore, living down in Essex, being brought before the magistrates, for refusing to submit his child to the process of vaecination, and not being aware of any similar case in the neighbourhood, I wrote him a letter, urging upon him the necessity for the formation of a League similar to our own, enclosing in that letter all the information necessary for that purpose. Yesterday morning I received a reply, of which the following is a copy :- '"*1, Bond-st. Grays, Essex, March 21. "Dear Sir,-Having received your letter, dated March 17, I write to say that we are still opposed to what you justly term the infamous (and I may add) cruel law of compulsory vaccination.. My husband is a sober, honest, and industrious man-an agricul- tural labourer -likewise an wunsalaried Baptist minister, He has been a strict Baptist for 36 years, and I myself for 25 years.: We have resided at Grays for 19 years. We have nine children in all, but we have not been favoured to bring up more than two, whom I need not say we think. much of. Our eldest is a son in his 15th year, and Iam happy to say is beyond the power of the Vaccination law. The youngest is a healthy girl; she will be three years in July next. The vaccination officer has caused us much trouble. We have had six summonses-thrée last year and three this.. It is two years this month since he first began to interfere with us. The first three or, four summonses broke down; the last,two obtained convictions. One was in November last. year 1840, and ever since suffering from running | My husband had been at home ill for two weeks [May 1. 1873. May i; 1878. |  . 407 before it came, and therefore did not attend at the sessions-room on bench day, Nov. 1, and was fined 20s., and 8s. 6d. costs, and paid it. In a fortnight's time the officer came again to know if we should have the child vaccinated. My husband was still at home, suffering much pain in his head and limbs, 'and had no conference with him whatever. The officer, however, took out another summons, and it was served upon my husband; so we had only one clear day's notice. As he was something better (though not well) he appeared before tae Bench at Disitt, Dec. 8, and stated his objections. He, however, was again fined 20s., and costs 8s. 6d. This time we were not prepared or felt the disposition to pay it, as it seemed such a piece of persecution. As the money was not paid, they issued a distress warrant for 30s.. This was a very painful part. Now the officer can break up our little home, or take a good and faithful husband-a kind and loving father-and shut him upin acell and treat him worse than they would a murderer-keep him on a piece of black bread and cold water. My husband was not able to serve his time; he took the ague by some means or other, and it brought on such a state of prostration, that after staying nine or ten days we had to pay £1. 11s. 6d. to release him for the last three days, and he has scarcely recovered from his imprisonment now. Hewas taken on the 14th Feb., and stayed until the 24th. Dear sir, I have just given you an outline of the facts of the case, and as you say in your letter you will gladly give us any further information, will you be good enough to inform us which is the nearest branch to us, and what is required to constitute a member, and how soon it can be accomplished, as up to this time we have stood out single-handed, and some think us very foolish for so doing. Our means of resistance are as near as possible exhausted. There are many around us who say they do not believe in vaccination tion, yet they have not moral courage to stand out against it. This affair of ours has frightened many; but I hope my husband will soon recover his bodily strength; This is the first week he has been able to work for more than amonth. He has suffered much with his head and face, through taking cold, and but for his being in so much pain he would have answered your letter himself. We have not seen the paper called the Anti-Vaccinator. I shall try and get it. Hoping you will favour us with a reply as soon as convenient,-I am, dear sir, yours respectfully, 'Mary Ann Whitmore." There is scarcely any need for comment on this -it speaks for itself, and it should speak with a voice sufficiently loud to arouse every Englishman and woman to agitate until a law so cruel in its operation is swept from our Statute book. Thank God that justice in this ancient city has not descended so low as it has in many places I could name! Surely, when a man has been punished once for an offence, if should be sufficient to meet the require- ments of any just law; but to keep my child in health cannot be a crime (yet so this law rules it): and depend upon it, that this is not the only case by hundreds, where parents are ready to give up or part with anything sooner than offer their children as a sacrifice to this modern Moloch. Our rulers just now are very anxious to ease the conscience of Ireland. Let them begin at home, and free us from a practice which, upon the highest medical authority (recently given), promotes one of the foulest diseases that can afflict our race. The importance of this subject is my only apology for thus trespassing upon your space.-I am, dear sir, ycurs, &c, G. 8. Johnson. 6, Alma-place, Lincoln, April 11, 1873. A whole Community Inoculated with Poisoned Virus, We get the particulars from an authentic source of a distressing state of affairs existing in the town of Hartland, Shawano county, manifestly resulting from vaccination, although the precise and direct agencies which contributed to it are not as yet known. smallpox having slightly prevailed in the county, the Town Board of Hartland resolved to have vaccination thoroughly performed within their borders, and accordingly made a stipulation with a well-known physician of Shawano to do the work He visited the town last Wednesday, and between the hours of ten o'clock in the morning and four o'clock in the afternoon vaccinated 117 persons, old and young. Of this entire number, within six hours after each patient was vaccinated, he was taken sick, exhibiting symptoms of having been poisoned, and the next morning three had died. two children of one family being among the victims Very naturally, great consternation seized wpon the community, and fear added still greater dancer to the situation of the unfortunate people. Messeneers were dispatched to this city for medical aid. and on Friday, Drs. C, E. Crane and Rhode went to the scene, | By the time they arrived there the sick people had begun to improve, and apparently needed little else than stimulants to entirely recover, As near as can be described, the arms of the patients presented an appearance similar to the results of a snake bite and the symptoms were those of persons recovering from an overdose of morphine. Great care cape taken to ascertain the origin of the vaccine mathe used, and it appeared that it was taken from is arms of perfectly healthy children ;-dissolved the physician insists, in glycerine, and inserted in the arm by means of a patent spring instrument, | Ag the matter stands at present, no especial blame appears to attach to any person; bus the whole affair presents strange and unaccountabl ee C @ phases,- Cinerunatty Gaxette, 408   [May 1, 1873. The Anti-Caceinator, es Ist, (ars The Editor's Address to the Reaaer. The Editor regrets to announce that, in consequence of ill-heaith-the result of over- work-he is compelled to discontinue tho publication of the Journal. This decision has not been made without much thought; but his medical adviser demands a complete rest from all literary labours, and it is with great reluct- ance that the Editor feels called upon to submit to his advice. Compulsory Vaccination:* Its Injustice and Sin. By the Rev. Geo. Cardew. That there should be a Compulsory Law on such a subject as Vaccination, may well excite surprise when wo consider that not only has the world at' large always had a diversity of opinion as to whether it be a good or an evil, but even the members of the medical profession have never been able to agree among them- selves upon the point. There are many doctors of eminence, both in England and on the Continent, at this very time, who regard vaccination as a complete delusion, doing serious mischief to the health of the people ; working disease and often death among them, and not life. Many, having vaccinated thousands, have given up the practice from an experience of the poisonous and deadly results, and have bitterly repented that they ever had a handinit. Ihave a long and increasing list of these, which I may give you some day. * The above is an extract from the first of a series of papers written by the Rey. Geo. Cardew. No. 1 is now published, and may be had from Messrs. Knight, of Ipswich, price twopence. We hope Anti-Vaccinators throughout the country will do all they can to disseminate these papers as they appear, Under these circumstances, I cannot but express my astonishment that a compulsory law should exist. Indeed, having' a good acquaintance with history, I venture unhesitatingly to say that, in looking back on all history, whether ancient or modern, heathen or Christian, I fail to discover any law which surpasses in cruelty, injustice, or sin, the Compulsory Vaccination Act, which the English Parlament-to meet the views of the fashionable doctors of the day-has passed, The more I think of that Act, the more Lamamazed. First-that any assembly of free Englishmen could have been found to pass it. Next-that any bench of free Magistrates could have been found to carry it out. And then- that so many free and independent Englishmen should have looked on in silence while their poorer brethren were suffering such cruel injustice. See now what this Compulsory Vaccination law is, and how it-acts. It commands every parent to vaccinate his child, with the alternative of fine or imprisonment. If the father, believing it to be an evil- perhaps from having lost a child, or seen one mutilated by it)-refuse to have his little one vacci- nated, and the fine be not paid, his goods are to be seized, or himself sent to prison. I will tell you what vaccination is in another paper. I merely say now, that itis the cutting, with a sharp instrument, of holes in your dear little babe's arm, a few weeks after it is born, and putting into the holes some filthy matter from a cow-which matter has generally, in addition, passed through the arm of another child; so that your dear little healthy babe, just after God has given it you, is made to be ill with a mixture of the corruption of both man and beast, which i is forcibly inserted into its body. Well, as every mother loathes this, and every father feels degraded by it, so the consciences of some will not allow them to commit such a sin against their child as to give their consent to its pollution and mutilation when it is in a state of helplessness; and so, when the vaccinating doctor comes, they refuse to allow him to cut and wound the babe with his lancet, or to taint it with the filthy matter. After a time the father is summoned to appear before the bench of magistrates at the petty sessions. He appears on the appointed day, and now see what follows. If he be a rich man, he pays a few shillings, which are literally nothing to him; pities the poor magistrates-(regarding ¢hem as the eriminals rather than himself) ; scorns the wicked law; feels ashamed almost of being an Hnglishman-and goes his way. He does not vaccinate his child, and suffers nothing 324 : i ' * Big h eU La A eS. Jee Bile Bb > b on een es tad etek wee ee OR eh May 1, 1973.]  . 409 at all for not doing it. If he be a poor man, he is fined too; but the fine is a serious thing to him, for he has to pay the costs as well, which are often more than double the fine. Sometimes he is able to pay the money himself, or some kind friends, who hate tyranny and love the poor, pay it for him, But when he cannot find the money anyhow, he is sent to prison, and his family to the Union. [I will give - you instances of this another day.] So that a poor man, whose only crime is that he is poor, and loves his child, will not submit to what he believes to be a great sin, namely-to allow his dear little babe to have its blood poisoned at its birth with filthy matter from a beast ;-a poor man, whose only crime is what I have just said, has his humble home broken up, himself degraded by being ranked with thieves and vicious persons, and shut up in a prison, and his wife and children removed to the Union. And this in free England-the land that we are in the habit of boasting is the land of the brave and the free! Yes-in free England (as we call it) two men commit exactly the same offence; but one is rich, and the other poor. The rich man takes out his purse, pays down the moncy with scorn, drives off in his carriage to his comfortable home and his good dinner. The poor man cannot pay the money, and with broken heart and a helpless sense of oppres- sion, is driven away in the prison van to gaol and dry bread! My spirit burns with indignation as I read my own words. But there is, as | think, even @ lower depth than this. It is the case of those many thousands of poor timid dependent croaturcs who, believing vac- cination to be an evil and a sin, do violence to their reason and conscience through fear of the law and the fine; and with aching hearts and oppressed spirits take their children to be lanced and polluted by the doctor, and to receive what they believe to be an irreparable injury. The man in the prison is to be envied by comparison with these. He suffers, indeed, but he has saved his child and his conscience. He is oppressed by man, but God is with him, as with Joseph of old; for he has preferred a prison to sin. These poor creatures, however, have been forced into sin by the law; for the temptation to sin, through fear of the fine and the gaol, has been so great, that it has had all the effect of force upon them, and they have yielded to the pressure, and sacrificed their little ones to save themselves. Mr. Gladstone, years ago, wrote a noble and stirring letter about Naples and its cruel persccutions; which letter may have helped much in shortening the days of the tyranny. Will not some Beit Dorian Sod ME aie oe cared Dbaig, Bare duly qi tae 2 fe i enlightened Neapolitan, returning the compliment" now write an equally stirring article atout England and its liberties-I mean its Compulsory Laws ? O ye Christian men and women of England !--ye that have hearts and can feel for the sorrows and oppressions of others! ye that are not dependent on daily toil for the bread and water of life, and are free to act as you wish! ye that have dear little ones of your own that you love, and would not hurt even to the extent of a single hair of their heads !- think how you would feel if you were forced (and with your own hands, too) to carry your dearly- beloved babes to receive at the hands of another, against your will, what you belicved to be an irremediable injury--one that could never be repaired. And this is what countless poor mothers have to go through who take their infants to the vaccinating doctor, at the appointed place on the appointed day, to receive the lancet-wounds. They almost all hate it intensely. In all the parishes in which I have ministered, I have never met even one poor father or mother who liked it. They believe vaccination to be poison, and instinctively dread it. They have known, in many instances around them, and have heard in numerous instances more, the loathsome and often fatal consequences from it; and when they sce the disgusting humours rising in their babe's arm, they shed bitter tears, and mourn over their poverty and misery. "My babe has been killed, sir," I have heard many a mother say when her child has dicd from vaccination, and I have felt within me that it was but too true. What right has one person to say to another-" I think such a course is wise, and for my good; you must think the same, and do the same. If you can't think it, at least you shall do it; and if you don't do it of your own accord, I will make you do it by force, or fine and imprison you till you do?' And yet, this is what the doctors have done, and are doing, through the law; for it was through their representations-(cr, rather, I should say, ms-repre- sentations)-that the compulsory law was passed, and is now maintained. And bear in mind, that the matter is one in respect to which the doctors, as I said, are not even agreed among themselves; for some of them-and eminent men, too-aro strongly opposed to vaccination. And what right has that law, or any law, to step between me and my child to do violence to my dearest instincts, and force me to do what I believe to be fatal to its health and happiness? God has given me the child, and made me its natural guardian and protector. I alone am responsible in His sight for the bringing up of that child. No one must take it out of my hands. It is a talent entrusted to me, and I cannot allow another to rob me of it. I lose all my independence and dignity as a human being, and my parental tenderness receives a mortal wound, if another can come and take my child from my arms against my will, and do to it what my whole nature abhors, and what I believe to be a deadly injury. AIO   {May 1, 1878. And if we are to have compulsory vaccination for the poor and humble, on the plea that it is for their good, why do we not pass an act of compulsory morality for the rich and great, on a similar plea, that it is for their good? Surely, it would be for their good, and surely they need it. Their immo- rality hurts the nation far more than the innocent babes of the poor do. Look at the Divorce Courts; look at the baby farms; look at----. We shall never have an end of smallpox until we have an end of-or at least a great diminution of-impurity. It is impurity and immorality which lead to smallpox, and spread it; and the rich and great breed and spread it quite as much as the poor. Let us strike the evil at the fountain-head. How can a child fresh from its Maker endanger the public health? What an insult to the Almighty ! What a reflection on His work! But I must close this paper. I have net, how- ever, said all, or even half, that I have to say on Compulsory Vaccination. I purpose returning to it again and again. The law is a disgrace to free England-if it be not even a parody on the word "freedom" to use it in connection with a country which can permit even for a day such a law to exist -and I shall never cease my humble exertions, using all the ability which God has given me, and every legitimate means, until that law be wiped out of the statute book. Are the times in which we live of such a character that we can venture to trifle with the feelings and dearest instincts of the people? Are these days in which to have laws which fall light ag a feather -on the great, but press with cruel harshness on the humble; which "sell indulgences" to the rich (for such in effect is the fine to them), but send to prison the poor? Itis all very well for certain doctors in London to say-" Oh, but it is for the good of the poor-for their health." The answer to that is plain-the poor don't think so. They have seen the evil effects of vaccination too often; and you can never persuade them that what makes their children ull almost as soon as they are born-and often fatally so-ean possibly be for either their good or health. Their common sense and their instincts are against you; you are fighting against Nature, doctors, and you will be Leaten. Let our rulers, then, and our Parliament, be wise in time. Let them not continue to wage war against parental feelings and tenderness. Let them think without the doctors, and act-without them, or some day they may regret it. Surely, we have had warnings enough during the past year, when fire and light, and means of locomotion, were endangered ; when even policemen "struck," and London was almost left for a while to the tender mercies of thieves. Let them not forget these " strikes," nor the lesson they should teach; and let them beware of trying to rule with "scorpions" those who have | shown us plainly enough that they will scarcely bear "the whip." Helmingham Rectory, Stonham Apwh4:i87 °° Bridgwater Board of Guardians. March 12,-Present-T. P. Broadmead, Esq. (chairman), Messrs. Baker, Hammill, Talbot, Symons, Sellick, God- frey, Smith, Spark, Kidner, Hook, J. R. Smith, Waddon, Hickley, Ashford, Mountstevens, Cox, E. Ling, and J. Collings, The Vaccination Laws. . A letter was read from the Local Government Board, enclosing copy of letter received from Mr. W. H. Roberts, of Bridgwater, and asking that the Guardians give their attention thereto, and make any observations thereon which they might consider necessary. Mr. Roberts' letter was then read by Mr. Reed, and was as follows :- Jan. 29, 1873. To the President of the Local Government Board. Sir,-My object in addressing you is twofold- to complain of the action of the Clerk to the Board. of Guardians, and also the Vaccination Inspector, whois sent by your Board. Last Wednesday I was summoned for the eleventh time for not having my children vaccinated. The first thing on Thursday morning I gave the vaccination officer notice that J intended to plead guilty, and asked him not to engage a solicitor, or subpoena any witnesses, which he promised he would not. On Monday, when my case came on, P. O. Reed, clerk to the Guardians, opened it, which I objected to, stating the facts to the magistrates. Nevertheless, he persisted in going on with the case, and the magistrates allowed him half a fee in each case. I made an application to the magistrates to disallow the fee. The vaccination tion officer positively told me before we went into court that he had not engaged assistance, and did not deny it in the court when I made the statement. . I call it a great shame for a servant of the rate- payers to use his office as clerk to the Guardians ag a means of getting fees in another court; and this should not be tolerated in a free country. By this post I send you a Bridgwater paper, with an account of my case, and the Guardians' meeting. In reference to the second point-I refer you to | your letter of Oct. 24, 1871, wherein you state that- you have no authority to interfere with the Guardians in the administration of the Vaccination laws. When speaking to the Vaccination officer some time ago of the hardship of my case, he said he had no alternative but to summon me. When the officer from London was looking over his books, he saw that my children had not been vaccinated, and, asking the reason, was told that I had already been summoned seyeral times. That, he said, did not matter-I must be summoned again. This shows clearly thatthe Board in London have power to stop these proceedings, if they have the power to say they must goon. If the money that is spent in poisoning the blood of the children were spent in ridding our town of the filth which exists, and improving the bad state of our drainage-to say nothing of the had water supply, &¢,--there would May 1, 1873.} re  . 41t be a greater benefit to public health. But I intend to write more definitely on this subject shortly.-I remain, yours truly, (gignea) W. H. Roberts. In commenting on the letter, Mr. Reed referred to the report of Guardians' meeting in the Bridgwater Gazette, in which, after detailing expressions of Opinion by different members, 16 was stated that "the Clerk was instructed to take the necessary steps for further proceedings." On the Saturday pre- ceding the day on which the court would sit, he was told that defendant would plead guilty; but he conceived that it was still his duty to attend the court, and he did so. Captain Hickley said it appeared that their Clerk was instructed to carry out this prosecution, and it was his dufy to see that the case did not fall through ; consequently, he was bound to appear at the sessions when it was brought on. Mr. Baker thought if they meant to make the law respected, they should stick to this case. It had been represented to him that this prosecution was akin toa religious persecution, when a person was severely dealt with because he refused to act contrary to his convictions; but he (Mv. Baker) regarded it as a sanitary law, which must be enforced. If a person had a foul drain on his premises, they could, for sanitary purposes, order its removal, whatever convictions the owner might have; and he thought this of non-vaccination was an offence of a similar kind. Captain Hickley pointed out that between the cases there was this notable difference-that if a bad drain were not dealt with by the owner, they (the Guardians) could carry out the. necessary improve- ments themselves; whereas, in a case of non-vacci- nation, the Guardians had no power to enforce vaccination. Mr. Barham had no wish to preach to the Board, but he might say that he was one who pro- tested against these repeated prosecutions. He had written to the Right Hon. James Stansfield on the matter, but, as yet, had not been favoured with a reply. As soon as he had an expression of opinion from that gentleman, he would lay it before the Board. Mr. Hammill thought that, as they had severely suffered from a late epidemic of smallpox, it was their bounden duty to.see that vaccination was properly carried out in their, district. Mr. Talbot thought the present position of this question resolved itself into this--whether they would.or would not carry out the law. That letter, written by Mr. Roberts to the Locai Government Board, was, he thought,.an unadvised proceeding, Their Clerk had only done' his duty, and the reflections cast upon him in Mr. Roberts's letter were wholly undeserved. ; After some further conversation, Captain Hickley moved, and.Mr; Talbot seconded, a vote of confidence in their Clerk, and the vote was unanimously carried by the whole Board.- Bridgwater Gazette, March 19. The Local Government Board and Mr. Roberts. The following important communication from the Local Government Board to the Board of Guardians of the Bridgwater Union, with refer- ence to the prosecutions of a Mr. W. H. Roberts, " shows clearly and decisively that the Central Board entirely disapproves of these repeated prosecutions for cumulative penalties :- '' With respect to successive prosecutions of per- sons who, like Mr. Roberts, persist in refusing to have their children vaccinated, the Board desires me to recall the attention of the Guardians of the Bridgwater Union to a report of the Sele t Committee of the House of Commons which sat in the Session of 1871. The Guardians will obs-rve that in that report the committee suggested that 'w/en- ever in any case two penalties, or one full penalty, have been tinposed upon a parent, the magistrates should not impose any further penalties in respect of the same child,' 'The Bill which was introduced into the House of Commons in pursuance of that report contained a clause to this effect, but that clause was struck out of the Bill in the House of Lords, and does not form part of the Act of 1871, though it may be remarked that that Act repealed entirely the 27th section of the Act of 1867. Looking at these facts, the Board are not prepared to say that il is not open to the Guardians to act upon their own judg- ment as to the expediency or inexpediency. of carrying on repeated prosecutions against the same person, after the Guardians have become convinced of the failure of such progecutions to procure the vaccination of the child. " At the same time, the Board must impress upon the Guardians the importance of securing as far as possible the vaccination of every child, and they do not doubt the Guardians will use their best endea- vours to carry out the law that has that object in view. Words of Wisdom. The prescription of the physician, however learned in its pharmacy, is but a slender part of his pro- fessional duty. Of far greater import generally to the patient is his watchfulness over the economy of the sick chamber-its temperature, ventilation, cleanliness, and quiet. I willingly admit that greater attention is now given to these points than was the case when I began my professional life. But there is still great room for improvement, especially among those young in practice, who rest too much on old names and old. opinions, and lack that better learning which experience alone can give. -Sir H, Holland's Recollections of Past Life. A412   [May 1, 1878. Isle of Wight Board of Gaard'ans. Seccnd Prosecuisions under the Vac ination Act. Mr. Warren, vaccination officer for the Godshi!! d'stiict, stated his intention to proceed against Mr. F. T. Cogger for non-compliance with the vaccination tion Act. Mr. UWibberd: Has he not been summoned beiore ? . Mr. Warren: Yes; and he said he should not pay the fine, and he went to prison, where he remained for twenty-fuur hours, and then the fine was paid. Mr, Hibbert: Then I shall propose that no further precesdings be taken ega.nst Mr. Cogger. W nat is the use of summoning a man over and over acyin, when it is clear that no number of fines will do away with his objections to vaccination? " The Chairman: Are these proceedings proposed to be taken with respect to the same child ? Mr. Warren: Yes, Su Henry. Mr. Edward F. Binke said he was not aware that this matter was to be brought forward on that oeca- sca, but he should fail in his duty if he did not rise at once to second the proposition. He was surprised that enother prosecution should be proposed in this cese, after the leticr from the Local Government Board, which recently appeared in the Hampshire lréependent, to the effect that it was "open to the Guardians to act upon their own judgment as to the expediency or inexpediency of carrying on repeated prosecutions against the same persons, after the Guardians have become convinced of the failure of such prosecutions to procure the vaccination of the child.' 'Those were the words of the Local Gevern- ment Board, and they fully bore out what he had previously contended-that in this matter a discretionary power was vested in the Guardians. The Clerk had always advised the Board differently ; and those Guardians who, acting on his version ef the law, had hitherto voted for repeated prosecutions, now learned, from the highest authority, that the "'expediency"' of carrying on such prosecutions was left to their decision. Mr. R. H. Smith remarked, that in the letter to which Mr. Blake had referred, the Local Govern- ment Board impressed upon the Guardians the ' importance of securing, as far as possible, the yuccination of every child." The Rev. C. Theobald, as there were several new Guardians present, quoted from the IJndcpendent the remarks made on a former occasion by the chair- man, who pointed out that the second Vaccination Act was passed for the purpose of authorising repeated prosecutions, where the first prosecution failed. The rev. gentleman added that, in spite of the objections of the few, it was essential for the protection of the many to enforce the Vaccination Act by every means in their power. The Mayor of Newport, in a speech of some length, opposed the resolution. It was clearly the intention of the law that these prosecutions should be continued; and he completely differed from the writer in the Hampshire Independent, in comments he had made upon the letter received from the Local Government Board. After quoting that letter, the Independent writer said-'' We hope, after this, to hear no more of these repeated prosecutions ;"' but his own comment, and that of every person who took a common sense view of the question, would have been-" we hope after this to hear no more of the arguments against such prose- cutions."' For the sake of the poor, of whom they were Guardians, it was their duty to carry on these prosecutions, for in the event of an outbreak of smallyox, resulting froma neglect of vaccination, who would be go likely to suffer from it as the poor in crowded districts? Some persons seemed to be very fond of calling these prosecutions " persecu- tiors;'' but he contended that it was the opponents of vaccination who were the " persecutors,"' in doing their best, or their worst, to expose the general community to a terrible risk. Again contending that the comments in the Independent were utterly contrary to the spirit of the Local Government Board's Ictter, the Mayor concluded by urging the Guardians to do ail in their power to carry out that part of the letter which called upon them to use their best endeavours to secure, as far as possible, the vaccination of every child. Myr. Dear remarked that prosecutions, however often repeated, were powerless to compel vaccination tion, and he, therefore, thought that one process was enough. On a division there appeared-for the resolution, 9; against, 24. Mr. Cogger will therefore be once more proceeded against.- Hampshire Independent, April 30. Walsall Board of Guardians. The usual weekly meeting of this Board was held yesterday. The following members were present :- Mr. Brewer (in the chair), Messrs. Green,. Jupp, Williams, Day, Taylor, Corbett, G. Butler, Mason, J. Butler, Stanley, Motteram, Bloomer, and Major Strongitharm. Alleged Effects of Vaccination. Mr. Bull, a ratepayer residing in Green-lane, and who had twice been summoned before the magis- trates for refusing to have his child vaccinated, appeared before the Board, and produced his child, a girl two years old, who appeared to be suffering from syphilis, which he alleged had been caused by vaccination performed since the last order made by the magistrates, The child was in a fearful state of eruption. Mr. Jupp stated that he understood that Mr. Bull had refused to have his child vaccinated, but rather than be subjected to the annoyance of being contin- ually summoned and fined, he had at last consented. On Monday last he brought the child to him, and stated that Dr. Moore advised him to take it to Dr. -- = May 1, 1873.]  . 413 Fletcher. He (Mr. Jupp) accompanied him to Dr. Fletcher, who examined the child, and gave if as his opinion that the child was suffering from syphilis. Now as syphilis could be only communicated in two ways, and whether in this instance it was not the result of vaccination, was a very serious question. He had been accused of ferreting out these cases, He denied ever having moved out of his house to do so. The cases were simply brought before his notice by persons who came to him. He referred to four cases then in existence, in which alleged ill cfects had resulted from vaccination; and particularly to one case, in which a child had been suffering for eight months, and relief was being allowed to the mother, who was detained at home to look after it. There was a case in Queen-street, in which it was impossible at one time to recognise that the child was a human being. Dr. Drewry had charged £3 for attending, and its arms had to be cauterised three times. The mother had since lost her husband. He would ask the Board who ought.to suffer ? appealed to them, and he unhesitatingly said thet if either of the cases had been his own children, he should have taken steps to see if he could not recover from that Board substantial damages. In the instance he had given, the children were all still suffering. With such instances before them, it became a question as to whether they should still go on enforcing the provisions of the Vaccination Act. He should therefore give notice that at the next meeting of the Board he should move that they refrain from doing so. Mr. Motteram said it was certainly a very serious thing, and no member of that Board could regrct more than he did, sceing a child suffering in the manner in which the one that had been brought before them appeared to be doing. The Vaccination Act might be wise or unwise, but with that they had nothing to do, and it was for them simply to sec that the law was carried out. He considered the whole question one which more properly belonged to the medical men than for them as Guardians. In put- ting the provisions of the Act into operation asa prosecuting medium, they were only giving deference to the best authorities, and they heard Dr. Ballard say in that room, during the smallpox epidemic, that it was only possible to stamp it out by vaccination tion, Mr. Brewer said that Pr. Rfvore, who vaccinated the child that had been brought before them, was not a medical officer of the Board; andif the parents felt aggrieved, their remedy was against him. (No, no.) He felt so strongly for what he had seen that 5s rie morning, that he should be glad to consult some | thoroughly competent disinterested midical man | not connected with the town upon the matter, if they had the power to do so. The Clerk: The Board have not the power. Mr. Brewer said he would contribute his share of the expense, if others would join him. Several members expressed their willingness to do so, and the matter dropped.- Walsall Observer, _ May 3. Vaccination Prosecutions. ed ed ee ed ee ee ed Cheltenham. At the Police-court, on Monday last, before the sitting Magistrates, Mr. Skillicorne in the chair, those pertinacious champions of the Anti-vaccination tion League, Messrs. Wilks, Norman, Mines, and others, were again summoned to give reasons why they had not complied with the objects of the Compulsory Vaccination Act. 'Che first case was one against Mr. Wm. Brookes Reynolds, the defendant not appearing, but writing to the Bench to the effect that he had not received a summons, owing to his absence from home. He had been informed that it was the intention of Mr. Lane to issue one shortly, and as he would not te at home for some days, if the summons was returnable in the meantime, he begged the favour of informing the Bench that his non-attendance arose from no want of respect for them. He admitted the offence, and was willing to submit to any penalty they imposed, together with costs, which he would pay on his return. P. C. Irving proved the service of the summons on Mr. Reynolds. Mr. Lane, vaccination cficcr, spoke to having called on defendant several times with reference to the vaccination of his child. He last called on him on the 24th February. He refuscd to have his child vaccinated ; and said if he were summoned he would send the money to the Bench, wrapped up in a piece of paper, by one of his servants. He had served defendant with a printed notice, which he had disregarded. Mr. Griffiths: Then, you ask for a magistrates' order to have the child vaccinated ? Officer: No, sir. Mr. Griffith: Then what do you ask for ? Officer: For further proceedings to be taken under the 11th section of the Act. Mr. Griffiths : But the summonses are not taken out under that section ?- Officer : But they are covered by tho section. Mr. Grilith : Oh, ne. Officer: Then I must have an order made for See et et te to ee TS ete te emer te nes | defendant's child to be vaccinated on or before the | 18th inst Mr. Price, a gentleman well known as a Commissioner anda Poor Law Guardian, was the next victim. Mr. Lane ssid he had given notice 10 Mr. Price to have his child, Eva Emily Price, vaccinated, but the nutice was disregarded. He last gave him notice on the 24thof February. The reply was, that the child was unwell, but that it would be vaccinated when it got well. Chairman: What have you to say, Mr. Price P Mr. Price: Well, gentlemen, when I think proper it is very likely I may have it done. Clerk (to Mr. Lane): He says he will have the child vaccinated when it gets well. 44   oy - [May 1, 1878. _ Mr. Lane: Yes; he answered me like a gentle-: man. Some people don't, sir. Mr. Mines: No-they threaten to show you a blunderbus. Mr. Price: The child is getting better, and when I get some pure lymph, if there is such a thing es pure lymph, I will have it done. Mr Lane here said he did not want to press for convictions. He was knocked about by the Guar- dians and the Poor Law Board from pillar to post, and he hardly knew what to do. One said one thing, and another said another. Chairman: So long as the Act of Parliament stands, it must be enforced. Mr. Mines (sotto voce): And we are treated as machines. Mr. Price was ordered to have his child vaccinated on or before the 18th instant, and was told if he brought a certificate to the Bench showing that the child was unfit to be vaccinated, the order would be extended. . The case against Mr. Mines was next called on; whereupon Mr. Wilks, interposing, said the case against this gentleman, himself, and Mr. Norman, were similar, inasmuch as they had all been fined before. He wished to ask the Bench, whether it was not contrary to the constitution of England to harrow a man twice for the same offence ? Chairman: We have nothing to do with the constitution of England. We have only the Act of Parliament before us. Mr. Wilks: Well, sir, if you will allow me a few minutes. You ask a man charged with robbery whether he has anything to say. If you will allow me to say a word, I will not hinder you many minutes. I was going to say, our only fault is that we are not rich, in which case we might bring our case before the Common Pleas or the Court of Exchequer. We are told it is contrary to law to punish a man twice for the same offence. Mr. Griffiths: In this case there may be a series of orders and convictions so long as the child remains unvaccinated. This is part of the Act. it has been decided by the judges in the superior courts. Mr. Wilks: A barrister has told me that it is contrary to law to punish a man twice for the same offence. Mr. Griffiths: Well, we have the views of the Chief-Justice of the Queen's Bench on this matter. Mr. Wilks: Then I appeal to the Bench to deal leniently with us. We have reason to think you should fine us the smallest amount you can. We understand you have the privilege to fine us one farthing or £1, because this Act was smuggle through the House of Commons when there was a small attendance. In alarge House of Commons it was decided that we should be fined but. once for this offence ; but when the Act went to the House of Lords, out of fifteen members present, eight voted against the proposal, and seven for, so that if you take into consideration that a majority of the House of Commons has given us relief, and that we only lost by cne vote in the House of Lords, we think this a very good reason-and*we think, in fact, it becomes your duty, under these circumstances-to deal as kindly, as considerately, and.as lcniently as | possible with us. Another reason is this : Dr. Seatcn stated before the Committee of the House of Commons that smallpox had been stamped. out of Prussia, and Svotland, and Ireland, by means of perfect vaccination. In Scotland, 974 per cent. (he said) had been vaccinatcd; in Prussia, almost the whole people, and many were re-vaccinated ; and yet at the very same time-at the time when he made this statement-although he may not have known it, yet he ought to have known it, the people were dying of smallpox at the rate of 74 per cent. in Berlin, the capital of Prussia. In the preceding' quarter they had died at 9 per cent. And seeing that Dr. Seaton's evidence was 4 mistake, and that at the present time, notwithstanding the compulsory laws, they were "going" to build an hospital in Cheltenham, because smallpox was worse in the town: than ever it was- Chairman: That is because vaccination has not been enforced. Mr. Wilks : The laws have been enforced here for twenty years; and we have found that the more. there are vaccinated, the more numerous are the deaths. In 1871 there died of smallpox in London 788 ; in 1858, the year this Act came into operation, there only died of smallpox 217; so that you see, deaths from smallpox increase just in proportion as vaccination increases. Chairman: So long as it is an Act of Parliament we must enforce it. Mr. Wilks: But you see, sir, the House of Commons has shown a disposition to deal with us leniently, and, therefore, taking that fact into consideration, it is your duty to treat us kindly, and Chairman: We have to do with the Act of Par- lament, not with the House of Commons. Mr. Wilks: The House of Commons, by a large majority, showed a disposition to treat us well. I therefore think you ought to interpret the new Act as much in our favour as you possible can. Chairman; Well, Mr. Griffiths, what are we to do ?P : Mr. Griffiths (grimly): Make an order. 'Mr. Wilks: I shall be glad to say one thing more, sir. If you take this view to-day, we must take upon ourselves to make any objection we can. Mr. Lane has served me with no notice yet. Mr. Griffiths : There must be an order. Mr. Wilks: Then I was going to ask you to give us a long time, because we expect an Act will be shortly passed which will greatly relieve us. Chairman: I expect quite the contrary. I think any amended Act will be more compulsory. Mr. Wilks: If you will be good enough to give us-say two months. Allowus a little time. I was just going to add Chairman; You will keep us here all day, 'May 1, 1873.)   = : 415 - My. Wilks: No, sir. I will not keep you five minutes. Don't be impatient. I was going to say I believe it is highly dangerous to inject disease into the human system. Chairman (testily) : We have nothing to do with me. " Mr. Wilks: But it always gives pain.' Just now I saw a boy in court who was vaccinated only last summer. He is full of sores. Chairman: Well, we have nothing to do with him. We are not sitting here as a vaccination -committee. We are here simply to put the law into force. Mr. Wilks: Excuse me, sir, you must take what 'I have to say now, without deeming it a serious trespass upon yourtime. If you feel itis your duty to putin force this Act of Parliament, do so with kindness, generosity, and humanity. I feel it as very tyrannical to compel me to adopt the allopathic theory of medicine, if I do not believe in it. We hydropaths do not believe in vaccination. The doctors nearly killed me twice in my life; and for the past 28 years I have been my own doctor, and I can conscientiously say, that, taking simple medi- eines, I was never better. Chairman: But we have nothing to do with that. Mr. Wilks: I feel strongly on this subject, and -Lhope you will deal with us as kindly as possible. (A laugh, and " good.") Mr. Mines denied that the vaccination officer had | given him any notice. || Mr. Lane'said he had done this; and provoked a 'laugh by adding that when he went to Mr. Mines (on the 27th of February, the latter said he had /a blunderbus which he would very soon show him if he did not pretty quickly get out of his shop. An order for the vaccination of his child on or | before the 18th instant was made upon Mr. Mines, 'and also upon Mr. Wilks and Mr. Norman, these . eases being almost identical with that of Mr. Mines. --Cheltenham Telegraph, March 8. | Newport. The Vaccination Prosecutions-To some at a ( distance from Newport, the vaccination prosecutions cof the Board of Guardians sitting there for the Isle cof Wight, have of late appeared to approach some- { thing like a passion. The advocates of prosecutions- \ which many are beginning to think ought to be called ) persecutions-have so frequently set up the plea i that "the law" must be carried out, that we have no doubt they will be glad to hear "the law" has | been officially pronounced as no longer standing in the way of common justice towards parents who (object to vaccination, not out of a spirit of mere contumacy, but from a conviction that in some cases Jit is injurious to the health of their children. A Mr. Roberts, coachbuilder, of Bridgwater, in Somer- setshire, having been fined several times for the non-vaccination of his children, has written to the Local Government Board, who were also communi- | | cated with by the Clerk to the Guardians on the game subject. On Wednesday, the Clerk read to the Board a reply from Mr. J. T. Hibbert, secretary to the Central Board, bearing upon "the successive prosecutions of persons who, hke Mr. Roberts, persist in refusing to have their children vaccinated." After alluding to several amendments of the Vac- cination Act, the letter concluded-" The Board are not prepared to say that it is not open to the Guard- ians to act upon ,their own judgment, as to the expediency or inexpediency of carrying on repeated prosecutions against the same person, after the Guardians have become convinced of the failure of ~ such prosecutions to procure the vaccination of the child. At the same time, the Board must impress upon the Guardians the importance of securing, as far as possible, the vaccination of every child; and they-do not doubt that the Guardians will use their best endeavours to carry out the law with that object in view.' We hope after this to hear of no more prosecutions of parents who, by being once fined for non-compliance with the law, testify that their resistance to vaccination do<s not arise from mere obstinacy ; and we say this the more readily, since we know many moderate men, who have no strong views un either side, are rapidly being converted into Anti. Vaccinators, solely as the result of repeated prosecutions, which 'are not confined to Newport alone, though its Board of Guardians is the most notorious in this respect in the whole county.- Hampshire Independent, April 12. Gainsburgh Petty Sessions. Tuesday, Jan. 28, on i ea ne kA , ee W. Hutton, Esq., Rev. G in tton, T. F. BH. Fox, Ksq., Rey. J. E. Pool W. Anderson, Kgq. ory pat PabEE g Henry John Thompson appeared to answer an adjourned summons, charging him with neglecting to have his child vaccinated.-Mr. W. Howlett appeared for the prosecution.-The case was adjourned from the last court to enable defendant to procure a medical certificate of the child's unfitness to undergo vaccination, and as he had now failed to do so, he was fined £1, and 9s. 6d. costs. Tuesday, Feb. 11. Before Sir C. H. J. Anderson, G. A. in ; Pooley, and Tr i ea oe ee ks Charles F. Wagstaff was suramoned for neglecting to have his child vaccinated.-Mr. D. Hastings vaccination officer, proved service of notice, and other formalities.-Defendant said that he had a conscientious objection to have his child vaccinated The result of the vaccination of one of his children was the reverse of what it ought to have been.-The Chairman said the Bench had only to administer the law, and fined defendant £1, and 9s. 6d. costs, John S. Lamb was summoned for the like offence -After evidence had been given by Mr, Hastings, defendant said he absolutely objected to have his child vaccinated, on the ground that great evil had resulted from it to some members of his family, He 416 would submit to fines so long as he could pay them, and then go to prison, before he would suffer his children to be vaccinated.- Fined £1, and 1ls. costs. Tuesday, March 11. Before G. A. Luard, Esq., W. Hutton, Esq., J. E. Sandars, Hsq., Lieut.-Colonel Hutton, and the Rev. Lord Hawke. Thomas Martin was charged with neglecting to have his child, Charles Martin, vaccinated.-- Richard Brownlow, vaccination officer, proved the birth of the child, in April, 1872. Had received no certificate of vaccination. Delivered the usual registrar's notice to vaccinate within three months, and also a subsequent notice, as required by the Act.--Cross- examined: I did not serve the notice personally on you, but on your wife. I filled up the register of birth, on Mrs. Martin giving me the information. - Defendant said he had had a child vaccinated in Liverpool four years ago, and it was still suffering, and nearly blind from the effects of the operation. This was acknowledged by the late Mr. Jepson, surgeon. He had spent about £20 in doctors' bills. The last child he had vaccinated was not quite better yet, there being a red scar showing the plac had not properly healed. Then statistics, as heread them, were quite against vaccination. He also read an extract fron Dr. Hutchinson's speech as to syphilis being communicated.-The Bench thought defendant's statement was not a reasonable excuse contemplated by the Act, and fined defendant £1, and 9/6 costs. Wm. Thomas Jackson was charged with a similar offence. Mr. Brownlow having proved the case, defendant said he did not understand how he was summoned by a man he had never seen before; and if was also strange how he got to know the par- ticulars of the child's birth, &¢c.-These matters were, of course, soon cleared up.-Defendant said he objected to vaccination because one of his children, 11 years old, had suffered from vaccination, and never known a day's health. Statistics, and the danger of syphilis being communicated, were also to him strong arguments against allowing his child to submit to the operation. He asked the Bench to mitigate the penalty to as small an amount as possi- ble. In answer to Lord Hawke, he said if he could ensure the getting of pure lymph he would have the child vaccinated, but he had such a dread of the whole thing, that he refused to run any risk.-The Chairman said his defence seemed to be the abuse of vaccination.- Defendant said he believed that was so.-The Bench decided that they must convict, and fined defendant £1 and costs, William Pashley, charged with the same offence, said he grounded his defence on a circumstance which happened in his own family. His sister suffered greatly from the effects of re-vaccination, and finally dicd.-Fined £1 and costs, as in the other cases. John Norfolk was also charged with a similar offence. He objected to vaccination on principle, and would take care to keep his child in health.- Fined £1 and costs.-Letford and Gainsborough News. The Anti-Vaccinator. [May 1, 1873. Aneturr & to Correspondents, = a MeO a em Tomas inquirer (Wolverhampton).-The machinery for carrying out the Compulsory Vaccination Acts, consisting of medical officers, inspectors, and public vacci- nators, is costly, comprehensive, and complete. It is sad to reflect that this labour and money is expended on a rite which is not only not an advantage, but is positively a disadvantage to the whole nation. No greater curse than vaccination ever afflicted the nations of the carth; and the only mystery about it is-that people are so slow to perceive the mischief that must of necessity follow upon the observance. The people are content to leave the thinking part of the business to the pro- fession; and the latter, paid for what they do, have S . ° . . = no interest in going out of their track to enquire whether vaccination is good or bad initself. WVaecination is an institution, and it takes a long time to upset an institution; and how much more so when vaccination tion is believed by so many people to have been the sole agent in: limiting the influences of smallpox in epidemic and non-epidemic times. F. (Newcastle.)--In reply to your solicitations to continue the editorship of this Journal, we can only say that there is only one thing which we do not feel justified in sacrificing, and that is-health. Time, labour, and money would have been freely given, but the claims of a large family are an argument we must urge as a final answer to such requests. If, in the course of time, 'this health shall be re-established, his friends may be assured that the Editor will not be an idle spectator in a cause for which he has done and suffered so much. Linquirer (Wolverhampton), Gtarantor (Sheffield),- The Editor will publish a balance sheet as <oon as he is able to do so, and send a copy, with a circular letter, to each guarantor. After the present year's subscriptions are paid, there will be a large balance required to meet the deficiency; but the Editor will make no claim on that account. Se es a - Jenner and his Cow.- An Italian sculptor has executed a group, representing ' Dr. Jenner vaccinating his little son from a cow." In the interest of art, I hope he will make another group representing Mrs, Winslow administering a dose of soothing syrup to achild just before its death. <A statue of Alexis St. Martin revealing the occult processes of his digestive apparatus would also be a pleasing subject.- Figaro, Eny of Dolume I. SSS 0 see see Printed by J, Ward, Caxton Square, Dewsbury, Index to Vol. I. (New Series.) General. Articles. A Page Cry for Help from Boston ...... 229 Address to the Reader ....... siaieinereiah cel A Determined Anti-Vaccinator...... 112 'A Doubt from Australia .....03-6- "- 237 A German Physician's Personal Expe- rience of Vaccination .........- 309 A Lady's Defence of the Anti-Vacct- TACMOTE. MOGC OAD TEC as avaeretete see LOS AUwauloc Mathers sccteccs Benet, a Amended Vaccination Act, 1872 .... 26 A. Mother's Rebuke ...secersccceces Sol An Act of Justice 163 An Objector's Opinion of Compulsory SVIAC CHO ELOM 5 oe visio) aie siecle' plavehete; Lio Another Victim to Vaccination...... 149 Answers to Correspondents_....16, 32, 64, 160, 320, 416 Anti-Compulsory Vaccination and Mutual Protection Society ...... 309 Anti-Vaccination at Lincoln 269 Anti-Vaccination Concert and Meeting 30 Anti-Vaccination in Canada ........ 230 Anti-Vaccination in Swansea and Maryport ..sccccscesss coscoeeee 167 Anti-Vaccination Lectures ....++.... 384 Anti-Vaccination Placard ...... see a Gk A Nut for Anti-Vaccinators to Crack. 80 A Selfish but not very Intelligent Guardian ..... sooDObSoC SEG OCOUC A Word to Anti-Vaccinators ........ 390 ee oresee has Effects of Vaccination ...... 204 Baron Humboldt on Vaccination .... 55 Baron Von Keenig on Vaccination .. 389 Bridgwater Gazette on Mr Roberts' Case 827 C anada Petitioning against Compul- sory Vaccination .. 311 Cattle Disease and Vaccination ...... 69 Cause and Effect: Scarlatina after eooee @eeeere smallPOx sees oe oe 6GOORDOF 341 Cholera WME. s.<.61010/ 0:0 c1eielscietsivie.e Soke Lod Citizen's View of Vaccination, A .... 114 Cleanliness versus cowpox....+e. som LOD Cobbett, Mr., M.P., on Vaccination.. 109 Common Sense as an Instrument of SCIGMCOM srelelsiele) slelsielers "le 3 Ser vets sles Le CK Page Compulsory Vaccination Opposed to GIES Gunencogn OCOD OOUaGOOOUL 335 Compulsory Vaccination : its Injustice ARI SUI eel oferete sieieie cleleloiele|sisislos viele 408 Compulsory Vaccination in Ireland .. 390 Contemporary Doubters 294 Contemporary Opinions in New York. 279 voeneereoses Copland, Dr., on Blood-poisoning .... 214 Cumulative Penalties ..........-- ¢. 192 Cure for Zymotic Diseases ....... ee LOO D angers of Re-vaccination........ 54 Dangers of Vaccination....... aieieissisis roe Death, not Life ........ Neterere tere AEboo IY Deaths from Vaccination.........+6. 23 Defective Sewage, Bad Ventilation, ANd Disease ...cccceccccssesecss 244 Deputation to Mr. Pease, M.P. ...... 124 Determined Anti-Vaccinator, A...... 112 Directions for Vaccination ...... was SC Doctors' Knowledge .....+.se.-. sists as Does Man Live out Half his Days?.. 236 Donations towards the late Anti-Vac- cinator Fund... ..-.ss.e. Soo beSC Dornbusch, Mr., on Vaccination .... 247 {\ditorial Articles....1, 8, 24, 40, 56, 57, 72, 81, 88, ois 104, 120, 129, 136, 145, 152, "168, 177, 184, 193, 199, 200, 209, O16, 225, 229, 232, 248, 264, 980, 289, 296, 312, 328, 344, 353, 860, 369, 376, 392, 393, 408. Biditorial Partizanship .........". areren as Education and Vaccination.......... 23 Electors of Richmond and the Vacci- nation Question ......sseeeseere 268 Epidemics and the Differences of DoctOLrs .ecercoerseccseees se dona ae: PEXCLCis(r) ccc ccesc oss - csc ree Racism Ou Experience of an Hmigrant.......+++ 28 Banc: allactoeamd MACKAY ce<eidccoecaee Joe Famous and Illogical Nurse Argu- ment, The. cecsecrerseoevsseses 273 Hntal TaGlatlOlso sae cc0 nace essicinese "#0 Force of Example ......+eeee- 3810 Forster, W. E., Esq., M.P., on the Vaccination Question.....-+.++-- 235 | France Free from the Cholera Epidemi> 167 eooeee | 4 Gene in, a Hog... s0 (e Page erm Theory of Epidemic Diseases _65 SiGem.'? Bréadic wciccicaesies avociwelane . 144 CO LCC UUM yy aiereloralgreiare cleisicreis oie vate BOO anes) Hike for Anti-Vaccina(r)ers...... 280 ISIEMROD ENE! cGgacauN 00 dacnoogopes oe 204 Heals seas eieiloreretsiaieieree Heme Oo 141 Holy Alliance of Medicine and UMNEOIOEN Foun babcoundooDoocoDdd 266 Homerton Fever Hospital ........ sien Om Horse, Cow, and Pig Lymph ........ 85 House of Commons. Report........ 118 How the Compulsory Law is Treated by the Werking Man.......... +. 240 Ow: Gonpe EVanGSOne sie. es ce -lerelotexe tee 95 How to Circulate the Anti-Vaccinator 270 How to Help the Anti-Vaccinator .... 27 How to Propagate Syphilis ..,....... alee) Hypodermic Injection of Lymph in Treatment of smallPox ...."... 165 Humbug of Vaccination ...... Siokosions 885 Hume-Rothery, Mrs., Two-to-One ATEUMMENG Ss slice ereyorenaisie arereroleere 22 Tacks Of Tenner .e.cccceccevenes 142 Imprisonment for the Non-Vaccination Gir Olenilel AagoewoudcCOUCDOC eases, and Imprisonment of Mr. Matts.......... 53 Insanitary Condition of Ireland...... 108 Tnstalment from the Press ....+....- 149 Treland in Want of Money .......... 315 Is a Communicated Disease Condition, or a Naturally Healthy Condition of Body, the Best and Safest Pro- tection against smallPox ?...... Is it Prosecution or Persecution ?. Is the cowpock Vaccination an Infallible Medical Dogma ?...... 308 342 . 406 Span What isatiP icc. cccc.s S61 Jottings from the Lancet ....sese+ss- 173 Judicial Blindness ...+.+--++-- jolsteevoae . Judy's Pleasautry on the Anti-vacct- NAOH wcccverecevonseereres(r) Heloise svesiet 60 SOD ' Justices' Justice ..sesecceeee eseeveonreree 231 Page Lancet versus the British College of Realtor eis ails ave sieve ete ee is Law must be Obeyed, The ........%. 273 IGEN CARSOIS. LWEUNC, Boge oounaHndoo. od 133 Lecture on Vaccination, Notice...... 91 Lecture on Vaccination.........e..e. 106 Leeds Critic and the Vaccination Ques- LOMO aieteretete cits RraieKere (orale eter etats 246 Leeds smallPox Hospital Statistics.. 10 Letter from Baron Holmfeld ........ 150 Letter from Chas. W. Nye ......... eee) Letter from Dr. Garth Wilkinson.... 6 Letter from Dr. Bayard ............ 148 hetteriromr Hollands doce sos aces oe 17 Letter from Professor Newman...... 33 Hever towne; Pease MP vis. 'saree cee 1389 Letter to Mr. Stansfeld, M.-P. ........ 45 Letter to the Chancellor of the Ex- CheQuerigacisucuo dere wean scoot Letters to a Leeds Surgeon ........ 60, 76 Local Government Board and Re- DEAvedPeEMalilesi.c..c se ces oe ee 161 Lord Derby on the Sanitary Question 19 Local Goyrnt. Board and Mr. Roberts 411 Lowering the Army Standardof Height 91 Gucretiusand his Germs. ......<.... 405 Tay phy from the COW cassie 0.0018 wixiece 97 M edical Men and Vaccination .... 129 Medical Nostrums .......<.... Heine Heb ZOS Medical Note .........es Sieehe ee Sak stat 51 Medical' Numsery Talesis.. 1.60 .. oa. 274 Medical Obstructives. 0.046.004.0887 Medical Prisons ....... QETEO o 13 Medical Science and Medical Gene- TOSHRY! =~ cierelel ero alert aera bie nisfoletelslen 22 Medical Statistics in Leeds Refuted.. 5 Meeting at Hoyland Common........ 140 Meeting at Parkente... tsa s as TL Meeting at Woolwich ........,e6.05 92 Memoranda on the Displacement of Mortality in France ..a......... 180 Metropolitan Asylum Board and their smallPox Statistics ............ 182 "Mirabile- Dieta?' ss cgi ceatk 3 silage late Mistakes of Jennerism .......... econ ie) Moder Moloel; Wire) i. 22) clic oe te bare 244 More Vaccination Fallacies alaFurley 131 Mortality Returns for London, Lille, TEKOVOaS)s EW exel MOURNE Ba oeaGAwaoonoOn Mothers' Anti-Compulsory vaccination tion League w.2.e..5e8 Sterelorenelsie e, 291 Mother's Protest against vaccination ILLOM WAS sertcice ce soocoobooobgese aid Mothers, you must Petition! ........ 291 Motto for Controversialists .......... 106 Mr. Roberts' Case ....... SACO CO an Oe " 406 Mysteries of the Vaccination Miracle 405 es N ature and Conscience versus Law 103 Negro Notions of Vaccination........ 21 Notes of a Tour through the Haunts of the smallPox in Leeds. .86, 100, 115 Lnaex. Page Notes on Passing Events, Editorial .. 145, 177, 193, 209, 225, 289, 358, 369 Nurses and their Immunity from OHI eI! Oot, etorelaleverienete sonsdoanos PALE ne Hundred and Twenty-one Reasons why we Object to Vac- cination-Notice.....csecvece ester a OD On the Article "State Vaccination a Destroyer? f..4s% tse ee Seer oe ee 3874 On the Vaccination and smallPox Question eect Diese lerehe lets ato tes S560 culls) Origin of Re-Vaccination....... More ston "Our Strong Forefathers"? .......... Peters Guardians and Vacci- mabloniee ssc Jouo0o0n sVeishesoveretere Paris during Vaccination and Non- Vaccination Periods S60 05 BE Paris Mortality Returns ........ 172 '*Peculiar People" and the Act of PU MUPOPINIGY:- .siciscsis a cere 1s'ecieeye wee Peeuliar;People Again, ...s.seere0.ess 98 eooe Perils of Vaccination... "<0v... sieias vais 342 Persecution and Presentation at Mid- GU CTOMG ea Mr ectrcralsorse sare rants Ree oeaind 7h Persecution under the Vaccination Aces Cs We Nye F540 Fs C600 224 Petition of the German Congress for the Repeal of the Compulsory Vac- Cinatlon LAWS cssi00s sale b000 <s 388 Petition to Parliament ........ sooaods LS) Pickering, Mr., at Banbury....... Shelly Plague of Vaccination' ..5....<c0.0 0. but Plague-spot of Vaccination .......... 389 Playfair, Dr., and the Death-rate .... 102 Boigoning: fonePelf ccs onic Gaye. ase sieivetes ells Precautions against Disease....... see OO Presentation to Mr. Fraser, of John- BUOMCgrayaicirerer 600 3618S Sie nakatsrsl sie] c¥e vols 17 Presentation to Mr. James Hobbs, Isle OL Wiech tea. ere ents GOR coLiGes Call Press and Anti-Vaccination Corre- "spondence ..... ejets slerst eral) ches Serene ne eo: Press on' Vaccination : .4\ 2.042.000 270 Pretended Refutation of Professor INewinanal Seceies sayke aeloseinciatec ret 34 Professor in/Fanlt, The..<......eese< 283 Protective Efficacy of Vaccination.... 26 Protection at Fault Again .......... 199 Protest against the Compulsory Vac- Cination WaAWe scceccesces sielsnonete et Protest by '' Pathology (r) .........6.. 278 Protest of Second German Congress... 396 Public Health Bluebook .......... so OM Punch on the Anti-Vaccinator ...... i 8. Rare, Tay Wa ccs g-s ng see ees ols casororerml as Purity Essential to Health .......... 61 Puzzler for the Experts, A ....+..... 293 tion, The "<. .. Queries Waiting for an Answer ...... Query Waiting for an Answer....... 223 fal 237 See oeeeeeseeeore ()"ion of Compulsory vaccination Reaaica Vaccination. (aise (89 Re-Vaccinating Lunatics............ , Page Read, Mr. C. 8., M.P., and his Pet INWELSATICE Ai ere otoxste eleicie ole iaje diet otepeta et Li Reasons against Vaccination ........ 238 Re-Jenner-ation ..,... Geosscae oc re: wills Remarks on Dr. Hermann's Article .. 326 - (tm) Repeated Penalties......... MBacocade we. Report of the Officer of Health for Manchester, UB12:, <J.cccmaes cue cs Report of the Trial of Mr. and Mrs. ERY' scr ein! sreste oe Oe Praisieyelnxe aie 79 "Results of Re-Vaccination"........ 213 Return of Cases Admitted to the Sheds used as a smallPox Hospi- tal, Leeds, Jan. 29toMar. 9, 1872 10 140 Re-Vaccination Puzzle of the Vienna 'ard British Medical Journals .... 220 Revival of Old Superstitions Ssaivace or Civilised: a Comparison.. 304 '"Scene"' at an Auction...... velew Oars LOO Scientific Fallibitity <foteee seer eeoee 62 Scrofula Transmitted by Vaccination' 406 Selections from Dr. Carpenter's Inau- gural Address to the British Asso- ciatlon, at their Brighton Meeting 194 'Selections from the Address of Dr. Wilks to the Members of the British Medical Association, held at Birmingham in Aug. 1872 ..241, 262 Seventy Times Seven. .2 2.25 ates 309 Should Vaccination be Compulsory ?.. 292 Sir D. Corrigan, M.P., and his Barrel of Gunpowder \.>.....5.. seaee ne LO smallPox according to the Epidemio-. logical Society. osc cessie des ce 30 269° smallPox and State Medicine ...... 81 smallPox and Vaccination...... + 045-330 smallPox at the Workhouse ........ 203 smallPox ab Wigan" .:.......s<ceenss DOE smallPox in Chicago .........000° a Smali-Pox'in Durham * 3.24.) 26,0418 smallPox in Leicester .............. 109 smallPox in Sedtiaud 2s... as ee smallPox in Sunderland ........°°.. 42 smallPox, its Nature and Treatment, and the Fallacies of the Faculty Wibbsregavd tO. 1b. .aasnee ete 371 smallPox Statistics ........ ais viele s smallPox Statistics in France ...... 180 smallPox Statistics in Leeds ...... 118 smallPox Statistics in Manchester .. 245 smallPox Statistics in Sweden ...... 343 Society for Suppressing Compulsory Vaccination . ee eeeceesseeereeereoec State Dyrannys, 356.00 Ok Sronoso ogo alll State Vaccination a Destroyer........ 308 SLICK eGo ml biet ee less eae set ste AS St. Leonards and Hastings Gazette versus Zhe Times on Vaccination.. 147 St. Petersburg Statistics ...i..7.%.9- 307 Subscriptions toward Fines and Costs incurred by Mr. Clarkson, Selby 235,378 Subscriptions towards the Guarantee Fund for the Journal for Three Years, from February, 1872...... 74 Sudbury Prosecutions, The .....+.... 374 11S Index. Page Fortes, P."A., Esq., M.P., and the (c) . Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League ..ceeenees Serdeiercraiels= cic 276 "Then Show Them No Quarter!" .... 314 Theory of Contagion, The............ 371 Thirty Deaths from Vaccination in Bi ET URSURiaiaiel cs ele cleicle: aici aie (c) setae vleelers " To be or not tobe" Vaccinated ?.... 245 Trial of the " Peculiar People" Tripe, Dr., and Vaccination versus Cleanliness........-+sceeeeeeeees 230 Two Protests against State vaccination ELOMgs cet " SEL aes SABO Ate . 347 Tyranny of Vaccination ...e..seeee+ 359 U npopularity of Vaccination...... 20 as is Syphilis .... 840, 355, 356, 372 Vaccinated Veal .....0...005 NO OUED cued Vaccinating Case at Needham........ 302 Vaccinating the Indians .........+.. 123 WIRCCINGHION SE . acc cops coerce Ba sierais see LO Vaccination a Good Thing ........ a L8G Vaccination and Deathin the Army.. 59 Vaccination and its Evil Effects...... 190 Vaccination and Re-Vaccination .... 131 Vaccination and smallPox.......... 83 Vaccination and Syphilis............. 5A) Vaccination andthe Poor ....291,320, 335 Vaccination and the Vaccination Laws a Physical Curse and a Class Mar ANALY ?a 3 aisle a0 > aleve) o10re ScHocuene 112 Va'cination a Relic of Barbarism .... 20 Vaccination Certificates: a Doctor Committed tom Prison =. dccc.c6se 7 2b Vaccination Controversy, The..... Con ey Waceimation.Costs. "4... veces cls oe snleeeZdd Wacemation Hallacies: ...<cissies "siet one 46 Vaccination in Holland .........+00.+ 295 Vaccination in. India .....6s6e00. Bier sep Alhiy Vaccination in the United States .. 21, 92 Vaccination Lifeboat, The .......... 95 Vaccination Marks .......e.0.. Apo aoce al Vaccination No Protection Against smallPOx i. as stetste aiecoye eves 305, 837 Vaccination not Prophylactic #....... 32 Vaccination, or Blood-poisoning...... 219 Vaccination Question, The .......... 321 Vaccination Question in the Isle of Wight.... e@eeovesv see @eerseee e@eoeoee 273 Vaccination Squib....... sielaislalelelei aisle O02) Vaccination Tyranny............ 181, 362 Vaccination under Difficulties........ 203 Vaccination Viewed Politically..... ESO Vaccination is a Blood-poisoner,. 211, 227 Vaccinators and their Doings ........ 293 Vaccinators at Variance .......... 44,99 Vaccinators' Dread of Books.........5 93 Veterinary Surgeon on _ Blood- OUST ONIUTIE? ROBO OOS Rise eines eieielO.O Violation of Natural Law....... sopca Uli Vital Statistics connected with smallpox and Vaccination....cc.cccer 200 Page ben will the Last Vaccinator be sie ins) Pasa aoe coneopans cone A) Which is the best Protection against smallPox-to be Vaccinated or Wimivaccim ated 5. Weis wacesices as 229 Whole Community Inoculated with IPA OISOMEd AV MUSive 1c esreleleniels oles wren 07 Wholesale Prosecutions ........+-eee% 155 SW OLUSTOR WSO tetats chelels olele wretelelsieiere 411 Writers' Names. Adair, William,..... Sonnaoor sighs of aceleaee Allen, Rev. Mundeford ..........602+ 347 SCAT VACCINALOL *? . 4/016 srslelslicwleie cee 219 AoW. okscw secs. 68,165, 17352317269, 274 Bacon; Francis' /......- a areverersierenie eelse as BaUMPTAd SOs Jat yee scscicieieis viele eIe1siciciwie = 151 BAKED csesheyeis 83, 164, 182, 197, 274, 275 Baxendale, Joseph ....... poadododd dc 102 Bayard: Dr./ici doce otecsecss 149, 180,220 is CLI Saien lew sterele of repe Malacca ome a OUS Booth, Amos....... ais Bi PoaRyaleisie sie' peOoeD IBOObM WEVA v.26 secs so oe a eieeiase sey seieeaO Bradford Burgess, A ...... apealiare cusseitors 235 Brunswick, George .......+++.. 28, 62, 92 Bruce, Mrs. <....5... aaocodt ape Bae 27K) Burgess, James...-: OOO OUCISO cae, dat'O Butler, Mrs, ..0,.060 + "sews as sieisteipsevenee Cardew, Rev. George ...+....00. - 332, 408 Carpenter, Dr. ....-.seeeceee Rallenddte ode Capadoser Pn aeicect:as cree Neth ee LOM295 Caven, Rev. Robert, B.A. .eseceweeeee 9 @larkson', Mit Wiss. ss wcieee= 00 Nisiieieien c2o Coderre, Dr. J. Emery ...... 230, 305, 337 Constable, H. Strickland ..........-. 123 Coplarra SW. vecsrersteroiele ".e1<a10 Siglaveteeereyenes EE Cumming Drs .3,. x... Fasbgouaneasoods 144 "TD", 128, 148, 242, 244, 266, 273, 274, 283, 302, 309, 320, 321, 327, 336, 342, 366, 391, 398, 405 Dawson, George, M.A.....ce..eseees 18 Dornbusch, George.....+...+ 96, 247, 330 Dryden .....seccceccscosseceses 92,114 Dyer, Ra He ucts cv ocarwneeescecses GPO Englishman, An..... saasopeee SI viasic ois ess Mo BcSio oes a erhe o ehe S00 00 C Bes BOOG Se Oe 1aloebhon es one sou8 raveieisie aialsictelticterehoye 144 COMOPs MISERY (c) | alelieieieie 5° AOC os. lle) AHO UME SM Ole "ste eleldereie vie) isie eceunieveietee bees Intop:<, \WWig to ooo Bdo enue totaal eeierotoeles UG, Gavey, David ...-.s.. gd On eaiseeeis gO (GmlooVEG oisia ooaoo0c. AcIpo0O Do 70, 78, 342 Griffin, John ..... ease eiotete tenia 163 Hamernik, Dr. Josef .. 855, 371, 885, 3889 Harkforward .....6..sss.08 aearevtxecalses 314 Harvey, Mary ....cesssssceeeee see ce alles Haughton, Edward, M.D. ..... 3 ON, die Hearne, Edwin, M.B., F.R.C.S. .... 342 Hermann, Dr. Josef ......-+0+ Ga on ers! Hickson, R. C., J.P. .sseeeeee se) 20, 62 Hindle, James ..cecseesesveesees 59, 64 Hitchman, Wm., M.D. cseoceeseses 267 Page Homield, Baron, cea... " Seyeieaceses-e HOO EU MDOLGts ATOMS are sites cic te siciale ore 55 Hume-Rothery, Rev. Wm. 22, 90, 106, 1382 JEAN, AON Gondoodee bo.06 Meveeticee OO CO TITQUIRCE ~ MNS ie.:se's stinsiereets S65 sil! Vacgtles AIMMOs> tetas Sesteletates 2 /. 295 Ue Ustaaasocosdod icc abd eiale sawleeen hed Jervoise, Sir J. Clarke ..... icles weitere 2 Mi ead rics ROCCO OLOC Hoa sfetotovere . 237 OMMSOMG ES melee Sededeseee 209, 406 VOMMSOM ITs sale cs etio.cielele sietereroiererste reamed ee Tushitige a ce le Paes rete meee TOOD MOIS TeMO We tel. tolo te ereietelarstelare erevetejstersret MeO "Lover of Fredomy Ar" > a0 cesedeeleee B00 Pap bey, Ee Gs, xs sickiartoe seeks cnet te ee PAISLEY; SAMOS 5 6c sa ctu cieyere 6% stages sila OU Mini osepelia eer ecrate aie BONO OMS HNC SOLD ELL 53 M. Ditsin ccwiay ett 2us 279, 309, 311, 331, 406 '*Wedical Practitioner" .....e.ee." 69 ccm MICCILOTIER 2. yeve-ccelecorstersleieiesyssieisrers 236, 315 eisiiliTy Ctt5 EU spAcet Motelelclelet<iats Selusis see OO 2a4: Hees deetsie ss stersieieraieieieva'e 5660006 seen OOo, Nankivell, J. Hi... 22.06. oeterelateteleterets 204 Newman, Prof. ....8, 138,17, 27, 33, 51, 86 INGCHOIS Sh, is eM by rercle sis. Riteereleire Ol INMATES DIELS Gooooooc Sastre ctsotee! LD RSynKOo Wika onoceSo00s sopocuocousocu. kM an ODSeIel: gle eerap yeast bs eis siatereiae poe Oertel, Dr. Charles ...-ceccsssesess 336 Oidtniann, Wire.) stvee opereistatete Heinys aot, OUT CC lernlaOloy=y Goanec Seiccare 'ofa nlp 278 £¢ Pan" , csrsmtnerene alteniake olny Kea oO spew PeaAree, Mil. Neuse ceteelers a0 visisleiefe see giSO Perry,-J. Bp MERC. V Secs saciasmaicee 108 es BRGS...2i 54, ail bo; 21, 24, 26, 34, 56. 4(), 44, "46, 47, "53, 56, 57, 60, 62, 66, 72, 76; 81, 85, 88, 93, 97, 99, 100, 164, 109, 115, 120, 129, 136, "445, 146, 152, 161, 166. 168, 177, 178, 184. 186, 187, 192) 193, 194, 199, 200, 209, 211, 213, 216, 225, 226, 227, 229, 232, 233, 248, "957, " 264, "965, 280, 289, 290), 296, 297, 312, 328, 329, 330, 344, 353, 354, 360, 369, 370, 376, 392, 393, 401, Pitmany Hh. <. uscwucees acces (03 ey LO Pitman, Isaac .......+. Sesansocscous All Power, Mr. A..... saa tw adeewnislecces OVO Pratt, John, M.R.C.8. ...++18, 179, 292 Proverbs, Thomas...ccveceesesseees 163 Rig see tate velaaeshakate sactkeees of S. Cie? a cota de vateret etaterakerete eevee ee eeee 346 Shaw, F. Go... sens Juin 'amit on Sangalo Siljestrom, Rektor, P.A.....e.eeeeee 348 Sen iCH SEND ans oheeen as tacoma COS OMICON: MOL is ye ateraelrers) oxers Roreleyeeleter 235 Stansfeld, Right Hon. Jas., M.P., 162, 192 Stokes, J. ....cesecceoes aeleiinrersie stele . 130 "'Sufferer, A", sritarere one citys reiterrerctrele 190 Tatham, George...... BoE boSbondata Zee Thelwall, Thomas.....cccosssecesss 390 Thomas, Josiah, M.D. ...ces-erseeee OL MUO As. one ced inis seaicins eieulnieets sage oe Thornton, Ws S.rcecssrsecsvesgrecee ONL index. Page Thospe; BeniaMin .c..coescaes cesses 40 rLbiutitel OMVEMAN ice ters velole (tckelels otelsre AGeD GoGnal! Prenchi Je LOWMSend "cil. sieclerraisie OOO Trevelyn, A.. M.S.S.A. see0s0..166, 244 pone Ss 4 wivisioteie + oialeisiesiia airings sis KO oOo NERA, MOM no Haddanco sonnOdoOuN -a 181 COWGIEIE "Wa odgaccanscoodad docadane LEY Vick, Dr. seas ence cere eseceneeee vee 808 BVA CISeH GOEL: -sremrerientercicicioleiicie sisies aecreloo Von Koenig, Baron ...eesseesseeee 389 Waiting for an Answer"........ we a AWNeSIETE, JAS oG acotonanod0OONND serie OLE ANGI IDES GocsnrasooonOeds veseee 320 Whitmore, Mary Amn 2... 00%0.- . 406 Wilcockson,W.J. ......82, 203, 24, 270 Wilkinson, Dr. Garth ...6, 8, 48, 49, 51, 85 343, 374 Wilks, Samuel, M. D., F.R.S. ....241, 262 SVVpllaaMNNas NIN CT COs crstctclereiersicleye spoon Gully Wolbold, Dr. Gustave ........ apacsuecns Young Jeanette ...0..6. 08 oes . 331 Young, Wm. ...... so ou Sorell, abil The Press...... 8, 21, 23, 28, 30, 32, 48, 73, 87, 93, 110, 117, 122, 131, 162, 167, 203, 205,224, 246, 270, 327, 335,356, 406. Poetry. Anti-Vaccination Song ...cssecc.e.. 32 (OUMUIGERE, GEBoocauDG0OC a atetorere Miksa Oe: Devil and Vaccination, The ........ 123 IDI IOUS Saoemansooose 6c a Gataremeesree 1019 Dream of an Anti-Vaccinator.. cee 148 MEMES Un AUIIS eaters etetonars Soetebalsve sieseleiaresels aig oO Precautions against Disease ........ 375 Richard Butler Gibbs..............16, 48 Songvo Wold Wreaber -/.cle-scleire sic ole OO Sonn hameskilulan ssictcre sitesi sielse sin OO Sone OF Simdipad! <2). cleo. wleles swe nie. O20 *"Throw Physic to the Dogs'"'........ 114 Vaccination....... atiewiclberstens Riusee etree OL Vaccination our Modern Curse ...... 151 Vaccination Song ....... eiemerseererets cere 176 Vaccinator and his Wife ....302, 366, 398 News, Reports, &c. Andover-Wm. Harvey c....-ee-+es S81 Ashton-Jabez Steele ........ series 15, 30 Ashton-under-Lyne-Chas, Armitage 249 Atherton. Revers in. .siecscccevee 00 Auckland-N. Kilburn ........see- wee Aylesbury-J. Putnam, H. Stevens, HUGVis Seles ACHONE, scr clsrolore tare eretole Banbury-Ed. Railton, J. H. Beere, Hole COTY, .ececa ewer Cele sok 2 Barnsley -W. Turton ..00 20000094, 298 Barnstaple-G. Baker .....cecr.008 319 Bolion-P. Brindle, R. Shepherd .... 319 Bridgwater-W. H. Roberts. . 30, 335, 859, 410, 411 Brightlingsea-John Taylor ........ lll Bute ley Parke "secese sens cie Scooonece Zak Cambridge-Jas. McDowell ...+0+94, 125 Page Carisbrooke see eeoesr te eeoeeOPeeSseae de 35 Chatham Cheltenham-W ilks, Norman, and Mines 413 Chesterfield-J, Lawton, G.M.Goundry, 14, 38 Chester-le- Street-G. Harle .....;. 29, 94 Croyden-C. A, Blogg .....060.0..61, 125 Darlington-Mr. Pattinson, Thos. Brad- ley, G. 8. Gibbs, A. Wheeler, John Snaith, H. B. Spence, Jas. Met- calfe, Rev. J. H. Gordon ..380, 61, 316 Derby. e@eoeeoeeeseeeeeesee reese eeeeeeed e 205 Dewsbury-W. F. Fox, Wm. Taylor, W. M. Marriott, W. H. Heming- Way ....+0174, 238, 239, 347, 365, 397 Dublin-M. Wilkinson eCoeoeoeoteoeeosone 27 Essex-*' Peculiar People'"'...... Soom (tf Gainsborough-J. W. Staniland, Jas, Lister, Geo. Mumby, Geo. Snow, Amos "Robinson, Saml. Wharton, Jats dic Thompson, Cyn. Wagstaff, J. S. Lamb, T. Martin, W. Jackson, W. Pashley, J. Norfolk, 206, 221, 250, 302, 351, 384, 415 GlossopR ei actdcse mace Ais Sea vieisietenis sis elena od Grays-John Whitmore ............ 350 Hadleigh -Cutmore, Pryke, Long, 175, 304 Hoyland Nether-W. Turton ....+... 157 FU - Wit NAAM OLA Ve eieleisicvetossteleie LO Hurst- Jas. BUPZESS ......0000000029, 110 Hyde-R. Stafford, Mrs. S. H. Green- wood, Dan. Stafford, 8. Stafford... 15 Isle of Wight-Mr. Phillips, T. H.'Mor- ris, N. C.;Marshall, John Raynes, Jas. Hobbs ..29, 77, 189, 271, 368, 412 TELS OY sears aielers ois e ttele piace onoiseeiea cree RO! Johnstone-John Fraser _ Keighley-R. A. Milner, S. Billows, I. Emmott, J. Birkbeck. .125, 222, 287 Leeds-Jno. Plekering, J. Appleby, G. PAL ATONE ne sess tiers aie 3 Seats 207, 254, 396 Leicester-J.H. Bradsworth ......30, 288 WEICLO I exaraneracolersvorelerolverstets odaccoscaoaeé 77, 398 Lincoln-C. Hopewell, C. Lister, W. .- Wardeley, J. Clarke ....... "26: 235 Liverpool-R. B. Wallworth, T, Black 79 OUGROOVOUGTI vNetetol Actors folelottrelersteretiers 223 London-W. Young, J. Stuck, C. H. Frost. .14, 271, 285, 335, 352, 882, 388, be Ludlow-H. Watts, J. Price ....... Aten Macclesfield-C. Bottoms, R. Jackson, J ELAS ULI Silerelele) se/celersiersiore MOUOM rrr tac niontoaiincrtirte Sooooasoonlls BUY, Manchester-W. Tarr, HE. Heywood, C. Bruton, R. Bealey...15, 31, 44, 61, 383 Middleton-T. O'Kell ........ 95, 111, 159 Needham Market--Revy. G. Cardew, 333, 379 UV CIDCOUSTIC Lie cialelotilerarete sloieleielersieteisteroO sv20D) Newport-J. Raynes, N. CO. Marshall, Jas, HOODS se... AEC 29, 271, 415 Northampton- low, W.:Floyd, J. Frank] rent, W. Has- dell, H. Fis adhe Mackaness, Ve Marlow erkins, G. Me" eb- butt, J oy ox rby, G. Jan 1, 155 Page Over DApWen tristan. se BOOK SOO Oda as Preston-H. Foster 'oe 14°95, 142 Reigate-Mrs. Page 117 Ripley eervreeeoreoeoeeeeeeeeeese se ose 81 ROCHAAE wevccercecrsecesscecceccee 180 Rochester-R. Burke, J. Barnett, F. J. Sainibys, dle COOKE. cjoiscie slew "esi er6 Rochford-H. Merrifield, H. Baldwin, E. Key, J. Green, W. Burrells .. 336 TRALSIUG CTU etavarare otare eters AD ODEO. OOL O00 8 aH! Salford -P. Peebles'. .sc.c0- scsi cicicin LUO Selby-W. Clarksom ......15, 29, 222, 800 Sheepshed--J. Ward.vecseccsecceeesrd, 63 ISREFUCUG, seis. <1o.elelsiaisielelelereleteisiete Oy GaOoe Shields-M. Moncrieff ..cccccreoseee 206 Stamford-J. Bettle ......00-- 849 St. Helens-H. Knowles, J. Edington, Sr MELALING) Gotetele sisters Solow siete ele ees SUG Stockport-T. Riley, J. Wheeldon.... 29 Stubbin-G.. Winn ...1--ssc0csesc00e BOU Sudbury-N. Sands, H. H. King, J. Lawrence, §. Seeley ....... to soe OO Sunderland-A.J. Pearce, J. Priestley, T. Sutherland, J. Huntley, R. Paxton ....30, 44, 63, 79, 8, 224, 247 Swindon-J. W00d ..6.s0ccc006 ee De Walsall-Peter Bull, George Cooksey 125, 126, 178, 252, 383, 412 UOTALEOGHOIO" F660 0GO00000C slolelelaieielcetemeresl Waterford-A.. Nigholeon . adietoetsrers Oleg o Whittington Moor ....s.00. speisiele sos eOoes Wigan-W. H. Knight, Levi Booth, Amos Jacques ......+"..191, 223, 288 Yarmouth @eoerseeevreesceeeoeeereFoeeeeeorn Paragraphs. Ayrton, Hon. A. 8., M:P......00se0ee as Gandligh, Mrs, MiP cc. uiaersilencierinee ane Wauserand MTeCh. < wcis cicle's clea lelatolelelelen oat Chambers, Sit W.:(c)., MeBs asters lostoe Chinese Medicines... ....". vse sequen 200 Compulsory Vaccination .......++... 163 DisraclisMinyye everett sel yoreronte Boras, Dryden, Quotation from ...... Aocoda oH Fresh Air-and Cleanliness .......see 368 Tenge, Aim) 9) sie ec steversizierevetere ABnaGaGoG vite! Judy on the Anti-Vaccinator ........ 162 - Lancet versus British College of Health 173 Mundella, Mr., M.P....... a 6 Newman, Professor ......... Asooone. kes New York, Sanitary Condition of .... 162 Paris during Vaccination and Non- Vaccination Petiods .........e8. O20 Bex bom, WP. coe wcccisileis up iclore ornate ratenne 19 smallPox, Ireland & Birmingham, 162,359 Results of Re-Vaccination ........+. 220 smallPox after Vaccination ........ 110 Sudden Death of a Child..... Thought from a Working Man, A.... 309 Vaccination in India......... eerelelevole What is a Medical Statistic? ........ 827 Wilkinson, Dr. Garth ..... sdees see OO Wisdom of the Serpent........ 
