VACCINATION AND THE VACCINATION ACT. Re-published by the Comtesse A. de Noailies . A PAPER READ AT EXETER HALL, ON MAY 3rd, 1873, BY THE REV. MUNDEFORD ALLEN, VICAR OF WINSTON, SUFFOLK , And Theological Associate ( First Class) of King's College, London ; late Curate of Melbourne, Cambs.; and formerly Curate of Ironbridge, Shropshire, CHELTENHAM : PRINTED BY G. F. POOLE, MARKET PLACE. undoubtedly a very dangerous thing to rob an Englishman of his rightful liberty. It has been his pride to glory in his country as the Land of the Free and the Brave. But rob him of that freedom , and encroach upon his parental rights, and he feels that the glory of his country has gone, that his freedom has become slavery ; and with bitter discontent he burns with indignation, and longs for the day of liberation to come. As, then, we value peace and order, we should lose no time in seeking to have removed all causes of discontent. Let everyone here rest not satisfied till he sees the Compulsory Vaccination Act repealed . For the good of our country , for the sake of liberty and justice , and in the service of our great and glorious Master and Lawgiver in Heaven , let us do what we can thus to relieve the oppressed. APPENDIX . The writer, having since received a letter from one who, in a previous discussion , had advocated Compulsory Vaccination, has answered it as follows : 66 To quote your own words, I do not wish to interfere with any one's opinions, so long as they do not affect me “ or my interests . 6 Now herein consists the difference between your “ opinion and mine respecting Vaccination . " My opinion, leaving it open to all to do as they think “ proper, in the matter of Vaccination, as regards themselves " and their own families, need not affect any but myself an " mine. “ Your opinion, making it compulsory , very seriously “ and unfairly affects all who may differ from you. 66 As the Law now stands, many conscientious “ Christian men have either to break the Law and submit to " its penalties, or allow their children to undergo an operation " which they believe to be a sin. Your opinion supports "this Law. 6 Were the Vaccination Act repealed, which is the " thing we are striving for, all who consider Vaccination a " good thing could still observe it ; whereas those persons “ who conscientiously objected to it would be relieved of “ what they fuel to be most unbearable injustice" G. F. POOLE, PRINTER, MA (ET PLACE, CHELTENHAM. 
