A LETTER ADDRESSED (BY PERMISSION) TO THE RT. HON BY T. BAKER, Esq., OF THE INNER TEMPLE, BARRISTER-AT-LAW, SECRETARY TO THE ROYAL'COMMISSION ON THE SANITARY STATE OF THE ARMY IN INDIA (1859-63.) AUTHOR OF í THE LAWS RELATING TO PUBLIO HEALTH,” BURIALS,” &0. THIRD THOUSAND. MJILLIN BROTHERS, PRINTERS & PUBLISHERS, PEACH STREET, WOKINGHAM J, BURNS, 15, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON, PRICE THREEPENCE: 2/6 per doz.; 12/6 per 100; £4 per 1000. By THE AUTHOR, PRICE 6D.— Third Thousand. VALUE OF VACCINATION: STITI Being a Précis or Digest of Evidence taken viva voce (1871), before a Committee of the House of Commons on Vaccination. SHAws, Fetter Lane. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. “The author of this pamphlet is well known as a précis writer, and he deserves the hearty thanks of the profession and the public for the way in which he shortens their labours. For sixpence anyone may put himself in possession of the facts and opinions elicited from the Witnesses, stripped of all verbiage and circumlocution.”—Lancet. “Mr. BARER very fairly represents the evidence of the witnesses 0n both sides, and has succeeded in the difficult and laborious task of producing, out of a jumbled mass of verbiage, really interesting and readable matter. The result being a work which cannot fail especially to interest all magistrates, guardians of the poor, and others to whom is entrusted the administration of the Laws on vaccination.”—Justice of the Peace. “We can testify to its utility.”—Hampshire Independent. “Extremely valuable as shewing, in the most concise manner and at the smallest possible expense, conflicting, yet most valuable, evidence given by the several interested and disinterested witnesses for and against Vaccination.”—St. Leonard’s and Hastings Gazette. “ We cordially recommend a careful examination of Mr, BARER’s pamphlet to all whom it may concern, (and whom does it not concern?) wherein they may study and compare everything that can be said on both sides.”— Cosmopolitan. ÅŁSO BY THE ÅUTHOR, PrICE 1s. PLAIN PAPERS: by “PrgssTArr” Sound, instructive, and interesting literature for schools, and especially cottage home reading, being adult ideas in short words. TrÜBnERr, 60, Paternoster Row. THE VACCINATION LAWS. To THE RigHT Hon. Lord LYTTELTON. My Lor, j S preliminary to an examination of the merits or demerits of the practice of vaccination, it is desirable to consider some fallacies commonly entertained. 1. The reader of history is aware that in former ages Europe has been from time to time visited by severe scourges; nevertheless the population has always gone on increasing. Those only who were prepared by their previous condition of body, or bad local surroundings, having fallen a prey to the specific poison. The large majority have escaped every epidemic. 2. This being’ so, it is obvious that any fancied nostrum, or superstitious charm, if universally applied, might with a specious show of truth be claimed as a proved protection or preventive against any particular scourge; and if, in the necessarily exceptional cases of failure, we allow the shifts, “it was not done well enough,” or “ often enough,” or, “it was not properly worn” or “ applied,” &ec.; and, further, when neither of these suffice, as a supplementary resource we receive the assurance from an expert, or astrologer, that some peculiarity of constitution may account for the failure, it is evident that, with the unthinking, the proved virtue of the nostrum, or charm, will amount to demonstration. 3. Readers of history know that the most mortal of the plagues, e.g., sweating sickness, black death, oriental plague, and lesser scourges have been exterminated without any such nostrum or charm. By the natural operation of civilization and cleanliness alone they are gone. We shall see, as we advance, that the localization of smallpox also, which is simply an exanthematous fever, by which diseased conditions are eliminated from the body, affords no exception from the rule that “ filth and fever are intimate associates.’ 4. In the year 1722 the superstition was introduced, from Turkey, by a lady, that giving disease (which might be a mild operation, the subject being strong) would prevent the future taking of similar disease, which might in that case be severe, the patient being weak. Hence inoculation for smallpox extensively prevailed amongst people desirous of avoiding the possibility 4 of disfiguration; and, as a consequence, disfiguration became common : visible in all our streets. 5. This extensive marking proved :—1. That smallpox could not be a highly mortal affliction, since all those foolish people had at least survived its m horrors. 2. That medical men did not understand how to treat the disease. 3. That smallpox itself would not prevent a subsequent attack, circumstances favouring, for numberless cases are on record of second and even third attacks in the same person. To have a patient marked in our day is a disgrace to the medical attendant, or an evidence of extraordinary virulence. 6. As regards smallpox we find:—1. The immunity of the majority from any epidemic; 2. The results of sanitary improvement; 8. The necessary effect of discontinuing inoculation ; 4. The advantages arising figuration,—one and all most inconsequentially ascribed to the introduction of vaccination. 7. The word “introduction” is used advisedly, for the next in order of the fallacies is this :—That concurrently with the advance of civilization above indicated, since the so called “discovery” of vaccination, in 1796, the practice was by no means common as applied to the whole population, and especially the masses most liable to smallpox. Fifty-seven years passed of comparative immunity from smallpox (and that whether we regard the inoculation and previous filth periods, or the present smallpox epidemics now more and more experienced) but the population in general did not vaccinate, until the practice was made compulsory by Act of Parliament in 1858. 8. By the specious offer to “stamp out” smallpox altogether, a few experts then prevailed upon the Legislature largely to endow with the public money the practice of vaccination throughout the kingdom, under the guidance of these experts themselves, as a central department Fees are distributed by statute from local rates among the medical profession,— never so handsomely endowed before,—and substantial bonuses are awarded in addition as a stimulus to zeal by these central patrons, who have secured £15,000 a year for their own superintendence. 9. At the beginning of the present century Jenner was paid £30,000 for his adoption of the Devonshire farmer Jesty’s “ discovery ;”” and now, forced from the pockets of the people, the profession at large probably receive not less than £250,000 per annum for their share of this patriotic legacy. J0. No Parliamentary or Government inquiry preceded the Act of 1858. 5 ‘here had indeed been one or two Committees to decide upon the rewards to be given for what was deemed an infallible preventive of smallpox, and for the establishment of a Vaccine Board ; -but not until the arbitrary, unconstitutional, and illegal proceedings, carried on by straining the Act of 1867, had caused considerable agitation in the country was a single witness ever heard by the House of Commons against the practice of vaccination. At length, in 1871, a Committee was appointed; the Vice-President of the Council having first declared, in the House, that such would not have been proposed, if it were thought possible that any doubt could thereby be cast on the great value of vaccination as a prophylactic against smallpox. An application from certain opponents of vaccination to be heard by counsel was refused ; the quasi defence was taken first, but after ten witnesses, out of hundreds desirous of coming forward, had been heard, no more were allowed to give evidence ; Whilst numerous cases of injury or death attested before magistrates, for the purposes of the inquiry, were rejected, on the technical ground that the clergyman, who produced them, had no personal knowledge of the parties [p. 146]. 11. In like manner.no defendant is ever permitted by Justices to state his reasons, or plead as a “reasonable excuse” (allowed by the statute) the injury or death of a former child. Indeed an Anti-Vaccinist is to be regarded as a “ monomaniac,” or an “idiot,” and to be put down accordingly, by those who have never been at the pains to consider the subject. We are, therefore, so far mainly dependent on the testimony of official returns, and the admissions, fallacies, and contradictions of the medical experts before referred to, who were not only allowed to give evidence in their own case, but themselves drew up the report of the Committee. 12. The Court Physicians examined pointed to Mr. Marson, thirty-five years surgeon of the smallpox hospital, as the chief authority. Mr. Marson considers a number of vaccination ma important [p. 2836]; and in calculating results from his tables of recoveries and deaths, takes no account nothing whatever except vaccination and the quality thereof, or L i J v whatever of the stamina, general health, or condition in life of the patients ; vaccination ; assuming, among many other assumptions, that whether a well as to their chances of recovery from smallpox, as to their having * The references given are to the pages of the evidence in the Vaccination Committee Report, 1871. 6 “ caught,” as it is termed, the disease [248 |; “But,” he says, “we cannot tell why one has smallpox severely, and another mildly even amongst the unvaccinated.” , 13. Mr. Marson affirms :—1. That it is difficult to get vaccination well done [289, 245, 267]. 2. That the time and state of the child is important to avoid injury (which obviously cannot be attended to under an arbitrary, compulsory law) [240]. 3. That in 1845, 44 per cent. of the patients in his hospital had been vaccinated, but in 1864, 84 per cent. had been vaccinated [242]. 4. That the most malignant type of smallpox had been unusually prevalent the last six months (%e., 1871), eighteen years after compulsory vaccination [242]. 5. That in confluent cases no one can tell whether patients had been vaccinated or not [248]. 6. That in making certain calculations as to comparative mortality, he had assumed some who had recovered “ were protected to some extent, though there was no cicatrix to show, or else they would have died at the same rate as the unvaccinated did” [248]. 7. That out of 104 cases of corymbose smallpox (one of its worst forms) in thirty years, seventy-four had been vaccinated, of whom, thirty-two died [265]. 8. That there was no epidemic of smallpox in London, from 1796 to 1825 [266]: and that during the sixteen years, 1852-67, there were three times as many cases in his hospital as there had been from 1836 to 1851 [238]. 9. That the nurses (so often alleged to have escaped by reason of vaccination) had frequently entered as patients and afterwards stayed as nurses [243]. 14. Mr. Simon did not claim to have had any vaccination practice [193, 198]. 1, He could conceive nothing better than our Public National Vaccination [181]. 2. Says the experience of experts is, that the earlier years of life do not give many cases of post-vaccinal smallpox [185]. 3. Quotes Mr. Hutchinson as a high authority that syphilis can hardly be communicated by vaccination [187, 195, 202]. 4. Quotes ravages of smallpox in Holland, and assumes neglect of vaccination [164] but admits the statement is on hearsay authority [190, 199]. 5. Quotes alleged neglect of vaccination on board H.M.S. “ Octavia” [174]; but is unable to account for the breach of naval regulations [190,1] although, on being prompted, he asserted the men had joined abroad (forgetting that the medical authority quoted would have committed a breach of his duty in neglecting to vaccinate any such). 6. Admits his inquiries in 1856 were addressed to hospital surgeons, &c. (who do not vaccinate) [192]. 7. States the law has fully doubled infantine vaccination |190]. 8, Treats the opinion bf a physician 7 of such experience as Dr. Epps, long Director of the Royal Jennerian Institution as “moonshine” [194]; with the same contempt, in fact, as all other “ idiot ” and “ dishonest ’ opponents [199]. 15. Mr. Hutchinson (called by accident) proved that out of thirteen adults vaccinated from one apparently healthy child, by a certified vaccinator, at a vaccination station, eleven were syphilised, and that he saw them on the 5th of April, at the suggestion of Dr. Seaton [283]. He (one of the celebrated 542) had not himself vaccinated a child since he was an apprentice [284]. 16. Dr. Seaton states :—1. That perfect immunity from smallpox was experienced at Mold, as a consequence of careful vaccination [298]. 2. That both Scotland and Ireland were being freed from smallpox, as the result of the Compulsory Acts of 1863 for those countries. 3. That Mr. Hutchinson’s cases (seen by him the 5th of April) occurred after Mr. Simon gave evidence (31st March and 21st April, and not brought forward till Mr. Hutchinson was called 9th May) [311]. 4. That Prussia he knew to be well protected ; but Ireland and Scotland were. getting still better [317]. 5. Cannot deny Mr. Startin’s statement that he had not been asked (by Mr. Simon when the 542, who do not vaccinate, were questioned) as to his cases of syphilitic transmission [320]. 17. Sir D. Corrigan is sure the then absence of smallpox in Ireland resulted from the operation of the Compulsory Act in that country [231 ]. 18. Dr. Wood testifies to the same effect concerning Scotland [253] ; and should be very much surprised if there was any great mortality among children under ten, if smallpox afterwards broke out there | 257]. 19. All notice of the evidence given by those Anti-vaccinists, who were first heard, is herein left for examination by persons who deem it fair to look at both sides. Before proceeding to comment on the above with the light afforded by more recent facts, however, it is fair to point out that we have it on the authority of Dr. Farr, that no reliable vital statistics of any sort are in existence prior to 1838, by which the experts’ array of figures to be found in the Report can be tested. 20. Before a law is enacted to compel a surgical operation, at least there should be certainty as to its proper performance; and that no injury could possibly ensue [compare with par. 13, ss. 1 and 2; pars. 15 and 16, s. 5].* 21 The mere negative evidence that ten million vaccinated persons have not had smallpox [par. 16 ss. 1, 2, and 4; pars. 17 and 18] is no proof that they would have bad it without vaccination, because hundreds of millions * These and subsequent references are to paragraphs and sentences of this letter. In corroboration of this, as well as in further proof of the absence of protection ” from vaccination, and all the other fallacies of the experts,— the tables of ages at death, furnished by the Registrar General’s Report for 1871, show that out of the total smallpox deaths 87 per cent., in London, were children under five, and in England 83 per cent. In Dundee (the Scotch Registrar General, claiming that all the births are accounted for as vaccinated, and the Act having then been in operation eight years) 374 per cent. were under five [par. 14 ss. 2 and 7; par. 18]. Again, compulsory vaccination had been then eighteen years in operation in this country, and of years of age, and, in London, 64 per cent. 27. In calculating results from an operation doing violence to nature, like vaccination, how careful should the expert be that he does everything fairly, so as to exclude the possibility of mistake, which might give rise to false conclusions ; yet how is this care shewn [par. 13, s. 6; par. 14, ss. 4, 5, (compared with par. 18, s. 5) and 6]. 28. In like manner the medical department persistently put forward mere hospital official statistics calculated on small numbers, percentages on which are worthless, and subject to all the fallacies and shifts herein pointed out [par. 2]; patients being taken from the class most liable to disease of any kind (and on whom suspicion can always be freely cast to make out the case required) whilst they utterly ignore, as if they would suppress, the reliable national statistics dealing with millions, and yielding proper data for percentages on a sufficient scale to found conclusions. 29. One main fallacy is that which blinds these experts to the part played by poisonous local surroundings in the development of smallpox, as in other epidemics par. 3]. No cause is allowed by them but contagion, and non-vaccination (though the statute exempts those who are not able to bear the operation) however constitutionally weak the patient may have been from birth.* All were ever born equal for the purposes of superstitious contagionists. * Thus the Birmingham Medical Officer gravely reports the larger percentage of deaths among the few unvaccinated patients, without pointing out that these are swelled by weakly infants, and others, dying before the vaccination age [see appendix]. A recent report from Merthyr also most ingeniously re-manipulates every exploded fallacy ; in spite of which the practical proof is the same as in all other places and circumstances. Therein percentages of deaths in proportion to vaccination marks are given ;—but, as usual, without stating the factors. With equal truth may it be said, that a surgeon, having treated one drunken man with a fractured limb, who died, lost 100 per cent. of his cases ;—whilst his rival, treating a sober one, who recovered, saved 100 per cent. of his! 10 Yet anyone who will be at the pains to examine the returns of the Registrar General may see that only in the low lying, dirty, and densely populated districts did the smallpox epidemic seriously prevail in London. It need not be pointed out that Berlin is one of the dirtiest cities in Europe. Dundee can ill compare with London ; and as to Dublin, and Cork, and Londonderry, nevertheless; following the lead of the medical experts of the day, according to the reporters, no feyer is ever indigenous in Ireland ; the “ contagion” is always imported from elsewhere. 30. A crucial example of this contagion fallacy is furnished by the Metropolitan Association for Improving the Dwellings of the Industrious Classes. Most of their buildings are situate in the localities in which smallpox chiefly prevailed, in 1871 ; yet although the population contained in them, in proportion to the ground area they occupy, is four times more dense than that of their surrounding neighbourhoods, there were but two or three cases of smallpox amongst them, just enough to prove that the disease may be present, without spreading, in localities furnished with proper sanitary appliances. 31. Before passing to the direct evils of vaccination, it may be proper to allude to a question, and the answer thereto, recently put in the House of Commons, concerning Banbury; with a view to insinuate that neglect of vaccination had produced an outbreak of smallpox in that town. On inquiry it is found that among a population of 12,000 there had been fourteen cases and two deaths; all vaccinated; and one of these, a man who died, had been RE-vaccinated. 32. Vaccination is a process, which, by diminishing the constitutional stamina, especially in the weak organism of an infant, renders it less able to withstand the ravages of any disease. But the direct evils which have been communicated by the operation are manifold ; and utterly beyond calculation. Mr. Hutchinson has brought before the Medical Chirurgical Society three sets of cases similar to those proved by him before the Committee [[par. 15]. This positive evidence of injury is surely sufficient to explain the reason for the terrible fact given us by the Registrar General, that syphilis (the large majority being infants under one year) had doubled during the fourteen years preceding 1870; for by the Act the vaccinated child is obliged to be taken on the 8th day after, to have lymph extracted from its arm for others. Now the evil did not show itself in the cases mentioned for two months, and the operator was not to blame ! What further is needed to support the inference ? 33. The Contagious Diseases Act claims to have greatly diminished syphilis (and it is indefensible on any other ground), yet during the thirty months, to 27th June last, no fewer than 910 infants under five (chiefly under one) died in London alone from syphilis. Mr. Pickering, F.S.8. (whom the- Committee refused to hear, though a memorial from three aldermen and eight town councillors, of Leeds, requested that he might be examined), has eliminated from the Registrar General’s Returns, that concurrently with compulsory vaccination the deaths from six diseases, chiefly prevalent among infants, have increased on an average 60,000 a year (after allowing 24,000 for increased population), %.e., three times every year the number of smallpox deaths in the one worst epidemic year of the century. 34. We know the general death rate has increased. Mr. Henley, whimsically (or rather it may be presumed, ironically), ascribing the cause to be a diminution in the number of doctors! We know also, that in spite of increased population and diminished armies, the standard is obliged to be lowered to obtain sufficient recruits able to pass the doctor. We know that the mortality among infant children in St. Pancras Workhouse last (a healthy) year reached 215 per 1000; yet how many millions sterling have- been spent on sanitary works, apparently quite thrown away? But in reality the good has been more than swamped by the medical curse ! 35. It is very difficult to refer to authentic cases of direct injury from vaccination, for all naturally shrink from publishing their misfortunes, especially any bodily taint; but the subject is never mentioned to a stranger without some fresh case being revealed. A clergyman in Suffolk says he knows three ladies syphilised, but dares not give their names. Many cases of death in infants were given before the Committee. At Gainsborough, two children were vaccinated from the same arm, one died, black, in a fortnight ; for the other £28 had been paid to the doctor, but it was never expected to get well. At Stafford, a previously healthy infant having died, rotten, the cause was certified by the legal murderer as hydrocephalus. In a rural neighbourhood (houses a mile apart) one child nearly five has never recovered the operation, and is now an object of pity to its relatives ; all— parents, grandparents, and other children, totally free from any such taint. In another family a child has been for five years covered more or less with an eruption since vaccination, the rest being quite free. A third case, a lady of seventy, vaccinated by Jenner himself, is deeply marked by smallpox, and besides, has never got rid of a skin disease which periodically shows itself, and which she has always ascribed to the vaccination. At Chatham, a father 12 who lost two children, each immediately after vaccination, has only saved his third in health by suffering imprisonment five or six times, and even the treadmill, illegally imposed by straining the Vaccination Acts. At Warrington, a father who had lost a child, (at the same time two neighbours’ children vaccinated from the same arm also died), was not allowed to claim his experience as a “reasonable excuse ;”? and we might go on multiplying cases ad infinitum. 36. Mr. Simon is free in his imputation of idiocy, falsehood, and dishonesty against such sufferers [par. 14 s. 8] yet what but conscientious duty can prompt these to incur opprobrium, fines, in some cases ruin, and imprisonment, (for they cannot purchase justice) to save their children from more cruel suffering? On the other hand what motive could induce Mr, Simon, &e. not to inquire concerning Mr. Startin’s cases [par. 16 s. 5] to keep back Mr. Hutchinson’s cases, (par. 14 s. 3, pars. 15 and 16 s. 3]; to lean ôn hearsay evidence [[par. 14, ss. 4, 5]; to rely on hospital authorities who do not vaccinate instead of general practitioners [par. 14 s. 6] (for how can a man see what he has no opportunity of seeing) ; to withhold truth from the public [par. 13 s. 9, par. 16 s. 3, pars, 19, 23]; to ignore the opinions of such men as John Hunter, Birch, Dr. Moseley, and others of that day; Drs. Epps, Collins, Garth Wilkinson, Mackenzie, Skelton, Bell, Johnson, Pratt, Brickwell, Acworth, Galgey, Haughton, Hitchman, Ellis, Nicholls, Turnbull, and numerous others at home; Ricord, Hammernik, Keller, Nittinger, Cordere, Herman, Stramm, Bayard, UCapadose, Verde de Lisle, Carl Both, Durocher, Schufendecker, De Grob, and many more abroad,—all opponents of vaccination, taught by injury witnessed in their medical practice; what still to suppress subsequent Statistics [pars. 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29] ; and if not themselves to insinuate falsehood, to allow the suggestion of falsehood to pass uncorrected par. 381]? Are we to look to pars. 8 and9 for the answer ? 37. I bring this paper to a close by calling attention to the gross violation of every principle of English Constitutional Law and Justice, introduced at the dictation of a few Medical Experts behind the scenes (for each single Medical case whatever, he can procure experts to swear to diametrically opposite opinions. Moreover, General Practitioners yield no greater proportion of philosophic independent thinkers, than any other class. These must go with the fashion or starve; and they have only official figures to guide them, 13 beyond their individual experience, —often very small. They have been taught at home, at school, at the Hospital, and by the departmental experts, that vaccination is necessary; they have too much work on their hands to study philosophy or statistics ; and many of them have acquired very little physiology (which is the preservation of health, while the cure of disease is the business of Medicine). To oppose vaccination would, for the majority of them be ruin. In defending it, when attacked, they can only avail themselves of the figures furnished to them by the expert leaders, on whom by so much the more rests the duty and responsibility of stating all facts fairly, and not to suppress or misrepresent such for any purpose whatever. In extenuation, it may be said that no man likes to confess that he has been in the wrong; moreover resistance excites passion, and passion obscures the reason ; so that it may be a mistake to impute wilful unfairness, even to them. Let us hope that itis so. Nevertheless where itis a solemn duty, to inquire and see, too long a persistence in blind prejudice will assuredly be ascribed by the public to interested dishonesty. The ignorant populace have always been eager to catch at any fancied “Royal road” to escape the chances of “ Contagium.” Lady Wortley Montague’s folly having been found so disastrous, Jesty and Jenner’s was readily embraced; and when our Legislators (not much better informed on physiological matters than their constituents) were persuaded to give £30,000 as a reward, the nostrum perforce became more fashionable, even with the profession itself, than bleeding and mercury had been. The whole subsequent support of vaccination rests on spurious statistics (which some say may be made to prove anything), and the results of Sanitary Civilization fallaciously manipulated. The crowning stupidity was when experts deemed it possible to “Stamp out” from the brains of the British people all freedom of thought, observation, and parental duty, by the Compulsory Law.* Under this law (so called) administered universally by prejudice, and set in motion by a low class of fee seekers, parents who scorn to tell a falsehood, are beguiled into convicting themselves, without the smallest regard to the rules of judicial procedure ; of evidence ; or legal interpretation. Indeed everything is strained to make “ Criminals ” of the most intelligent of the lower and middle classes, who think for themselves (for the rich do not suffer, and the poorest either do not care, or cannot resist) ; and this goes on in England, under the miserable influence of superstition, and slavish fear of “ Contagium,” excited bythe same * The bill of 1853 (introduced by Lord Lyttelton), provided for one penalty only ; but the subsequent officially obtained Acts (without discussion in Parliament), aim at the ruin and imprisonment of all thinking and conscientious opponents. 14 -experts ! “Jn summo periculo timor misericordiam non recipit ! It is but. for the nonce however, a day will come and speedily! Magna est veritas et _prævalebit. I have, &c., T. BAKER. KINGSCOTE, WOEINGHAM, 6th September, 1874. EXTRACTS FROM A REPORT BY THE REV. WILLIAM HUME-ROTHERY ON THE SMALLPOX AT NEWMARKET. “On the 27th of August, 1874, I went to Newmarket to investigate the circumstances of the smallpox epidemic there. “In ‘The Rookery’”—a most unhealthy-looking place—though all had been vaccinated, four had died of smallpox. * * * Alfred Dickinson, a servant, who had been vaccinated, and had afterwards had smallpox, had been suffering from a second attack of the disease. An unvaccinated child, 7 weeks old, died of smallpox. Absolom Parr, 32 years of age, and vaccinated, died of smallpox. Mrs. Prigg had a son, 27 years of age, a daughter, 253, and a grand-daughter, 5, all vaccinated, who had died -of smallpox. “ In the Hospital (the Grand Stand and Saddling Stables on the Heath), which $ visited, there had been 105 patients, “all vaccinated but one, who was dying when brought in.” I asked the name of this man. His name was “ Prigg.”” Now, I had twice previously learnt from his own mother that he was vaccinated. This hospital statement is a sample of the medical fictions that are frequently circulated in reference to smallpox. I asked one of the excellent nurses if no other patient was unvaccinated. She replied there was one woman who said she had not been vaccinated, but she was: ESRAS getting better. As I found on enquiry that anti-vaccination is unknown in Newmarket, and that very many persons there have been vaccinated several times, the probability is, this woman meant she had not recently been vaccinated. Some of the cases of confluent smallpox which I saw in the Heath Hospital, were positively shocking. Strange- as it may appear, one babe in the midst of smallpox, and nursed all the time by its mother, suffering from smallpox, entirely escaped the disease, EXTRACTS FROM ROUGH NOTES ON SMALLPOX AND VACCINATION AT BIRMINGHAM. —— #3 October 6th, 1874, “About noon to-day I arrived in Birmingham for the purpose of making an inquiry respecting smallpox and vaccination in this town. Martha Merry, 6 years of age and vaccinated, had died of smallpox. Maria Dotton, 20 years of age, and vaccinated is very ill of smallpox. Bridget Buckler, 23, vaccinated, died of smallpox. Mrs Bowe is better from smallpox, but her husband, 45 years of age, and vaccinated, her baby, 2 months old, and too weakly to be vaccinated, and her brother, Thos. Roberts, 22 years of age, and vaccinated, have all died of smallpox. Emily Smith, 19 years of age, and vaccinated, died of smallpox. Joseph Henry Turner, 17 years, vaccinated, died of smallpox. George Wainwright, 25 years of age, vaccinated, had had smallpox, and yet died of a second attack of this disease. Jane Bennett, 26, vaccinated is better from smallpox, but is much marked. Harry Page, 16 years, unvaccinated, Alfred Page, 14, unvaccinated, Joseph Page, 12, unvaccinated, are all well again from smallpox. William Philips, had à brother vaccinated, who some years ago died of smallpox. George Smith, 19 years, vaccinated, has died of smallpox. George Henry Smith, 20 years, vaccinated, has died of smallpox. Joseph Robinson has been twice vaccinated, and has twice had smallpox. Dolly Heap, 8 years, unvaccinated (mother a tramp), died of smallpox ;—two children then vaccinated ;—when the vaccine pox appeared they took smallpox, from which they suffered severely. Jane Smith, 29, vaccinated, is better from smallpox, butis much marked. Thomas Compton 15, vaccinated, well from smallpox, but much marked. Mary Ann Freeman, 20 years, vaccinated, has had smallpox, sheis much marked. George Bowers, 20, unvaccinated, has died of smallpox. James Bowers, 16, vaccinated, has also died of smallpox. Mrs. Pringle has died of smallpox; her neighbours cannot tell whether she was vaccinated or not; baby, a few days old, unvaccinated, died of smallpox. Wm. Neile, 29, vaccinated, is well again from smallpox, though much marked. Joseph Neile, 34, vaccinated has died of smallpox. “ Many of the places I have been in this afternoon are so indescribably wretched and horrible, that no gentleman, who may have such animals, would stable his horses or kennel his hounds in them ; and it must be almost impossible for human nature in such circumstances to do otherwise than stagnate and reek with pestilence both moral and physical. Some of the localities I have visited to-day are called THiEves’ QuARrTERs. Well, I do not wonder there are thieves, horrible savages and degraded youths, in such hovels, yards, and streets as Birmingham contains. My wonder is that there is so much of humanity and kindness, and civility, as I found in these poor creatures. But how can the wealthy manufacturers and rich tradesmen of Birmingham live contentedly in their suburban villas and mansions without making an effort to save their poor fellow-beings from the loathsome dens in which they are imprisioned? Vaccination blinds the eyes of rich men to the cause of smallpox and its only possible preventive, the cause too frequently lying at their own doors, in the wretched places in which they allow their poor work-people to live, and the only preventive being the entire removal of such places, and the cultivation of cleanly and wholesome habits in agreement with the laws of health. “I have been through the Smallpox Hospital. The confluent cases in the wards are shocking, beyond description. Two of the patients, a woman and a man, are supposed to be dying. At present there are 74 smallpox patients in this Hospital. The highest number there has been at any one time is 130. The total number of admissions from Sept. 4, 1871, to Oct. 9, 1874, is 2,377, of whom 329 have died, the percentage of deaths being 13-38.* Yet the Public Vaccinator for Birmingham has received, besides his fees, from 1870 to 1874, gratuities from the public purse amounting to £893 15s. for successful vaccination. If this be not a sin and a burning shame, what is it? If this be not enough to rouse the country, the country is dead and ought to be buried. But the country is not dead. It is alive, and will undoubtedly bury the dead and pestilential thing — compulsory vaccination. “Wm. HUME-ROTHERY. MERTON Lop, TIVOLI, CHELTENHAM.” * A far higher proportion of deaths, to cases, than sometimes obtained in the last century. See Blue Book.—T, B. 
