INCREASE OF SMALLPOX UNDER A PAPER BY JOSEPH BAXENDELL, F.R.as., REPRINTED “ FROM THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE MANCHESTER LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY. Vor. XVI., No. 9.” For the National Anti- Compulsory- Vaccination League. CHELTENHAM : POOLE, PRINTER, ‘“ TELEGRAPH ” OFFICE. TYE “ON THE INCREASED MORTALITY FROM SMALLPOX,” BY — JOSEPH BAXENDELL, F.R.as. At a meeting of the Chorlton Board of Guardians, held on the 19th January last, Dr. Rice, the resident medical officer at the Chorlton Workhouse, presented an interesting and valuable report on the cases of smallpox treated in the workhouse hospital during the past year ; and I am induced to draw the attention of the Society to it because it corroborates in a very striking manner one of the most important of the results given in my paper “On Changes in the Rates of Mortality from Different Diseases during the twenty years 1854-73,” namely, that the rate of increase in the fatality from smallpox had of late years become very much greater among adults than among infants and young children. Dr. Rice states that 203 cases were treated in the hospital during the year, and he then gives the percentages of the vaccinated, revaccinated, and unvaccinated cases, and the percentages in each class. From these percentages I have calculated the actual numbers, and find that of the 208 cases treated, there were 149 vaccinated, 3 re-vaccinated, 51 un-vaccinated, and amongst the vaccinated there were 17 deaths, of which 16 were adults and 1, a boy, 4 years old; and amongst the unvaccinated there were 20 deaths, of which 14 were adults and 6 under 53 years of age. Ofthe total deaths therefore from both classes only 19 per cent. were under 5 years of age and the remaining 81 per cent. were all adults. In my paper I have shown that in the 5 years 1848-52 the deaths of males from smallpox at ages under 5 years were 66:5 per cent. of the total deaths at all ages, and of females 72:2 per cent., but in the 5 years 1869-73 the proportions had fallen to 31 and 86:1 per cent. ; and now Dr. Rice’s returns give a ratio of only 19 per cent., and of course a corresponding increase in the percentage of deaths of adults, thus showing that the causes which produced the extraordinary increase in the mortality from smallpox among adults during the 20 years 1854-73 are not only still in operation but have apparently become intensified. Dr. Rice states that of the 51 unvaccinated persons there were some who stated that vaccination had been performed but on careful examination no evidence of it could be found ; it is however well known to those who have a moderate acquaintance with the literature of the subject and who have themselves made careful inquiries and observations, that the marks left by a really successful vaccination not unfrequently entirely disappear in a few years, and in numerous cases they become so indistinct that on the slightest attack of smallpox it is impossible to discern them. Jenner himself regarded with suspicion all those cases of so-called vaccination which disfigured the arms and therefore left marks which were likely to be permanent, and he contended that in such cases true vaccination had not taken place owing to the lymph used being impure orin a bad state, and in this view he was supported by some of the most eminent of his medical brethren. Now bearing this in mind, it is not at all uureasonable to assume that great numbers of cases have been recorded in the hospitals as vaccinated, in which much suffering had certainly been inflicted in the name of vaccination but without true vaccination having taken place, while on the other hand great numbers have most probably been recorded as unvaccinated on whom true vaccination had been successfully performed. It is evident therefore that the statistics of vaccinated and unvaccinated smallpox cases are of very little value for the purposes of a scientific investigation, and that the only safe conclusions to be drawn from the entire mass of  smallpox  statistics we at present possess are that there has been an enormous increase in the mortality from smallpox since vaccination was made compulsory, and that this increase is still going on rapidly, but at a very much greater rate amongst adults than amongst infants and young children. Since writing the above my attention has been drawn to the paragraphs which have appeared in some of the newspapers in reference to a proposal to introduce, in the present session of Parliament, a bill for making the revaccination of adults compulsory. I have, therefore, now no hesitation in submitting to the Society some further results which, I think it will be admitted, show more conclusively than those given in my paper that a full and impartial inquiry into the effects of vaccination is imperatively called for before further legislation on the subject takes place. As the best test of the value of vaccination, I have discussed the smallpox statistics of London — the best vaccinateđ city in the kingdom — and compared the results for the five years 1849-58, before vaccination was made compulsory, with those for the five years 1869-73, when compulsory vaccination had been twenty years in operation. In the former five years, when vaccination was voluntary, and the number of vaccinated persons probably did not amount to 10 per cent. of the total population, the death-rate from smallpox in London was 292 ; but in the latter five years, when vaccination had been strictly carried out for twenty years, and the number of vaccinated persons was 95 per cent. of the population, the rate was 679, thus showing the extraordinary increase of 1832:53. per cent. For the reasons given above I have very little confidence in the great bulk of the returns of the numbers of vaccinated and unvaccinated cases of smallpox, but for my present purpose I will take the numbers given in the official report of the cases treated in the London hospitals during the great epidemic of 1871. Out of a total of 14,808 cases treated 2,763 died. 11,174 cases occurred in persons vaccinated, of whom 1,185 died; and 3,634 in persons unvaccinated, of whom 1,628 died. The total deaths from smallpox in London during the five years 1869-73 were 11,059, and taking the above proportion the number of deaths of vaccinated persons was 4.542, and the death rate 293, or fully equal to the total death-rate of unvaccinated and vaccinated before a compulsory law was passed, The number of unvaccinated in 1869-783 was 6,517, and the death-rate no less than 8:009, or 27:4 times greater than the smallpox -death-rate in 1849-533, and considerably above the highest rate ever experienced in this country before inoculation or vaccination were known. But unvaccinated persons like the vaccinated die from other causes besides smallpox, and it follows, therefore, if the returns of unvaccinated cases which have used in my calculations can be relied upon, that the number of unvaccinated persons now living in London must be excessively small and utterly inadequate to account for the present epidemic. The truth, however, no doubt is, that a large proportion of the cases returned as unvaccinated were really vaccinațed, and that the true death-rate of the vaccinated was greater than that given above, whilst that of the unvaccinated was much less than the calculated rate. From the imperfect data I have been able to obtain it would appear that the proportion of deaths to cases in 1849-53 was about one-fifth. For every 100 deaths there would thus be 500 cases of sickness ; but in London, after 20 years of compulsory vaccination, there was not only an enormously increased death-rate, but for every 100 deaths amongst the vaccinated persons there were 984 cases of sickness, or nearly double the number : there were amongst the unvaccinated before vaccination was made compulsory and, as I have shown in my paper above referred to, the number of deaths of persons between the ages of 25 and 65 years had greatly increased during the 20 years of enforced vaccination. So far, therefore, from vaccination having been the means of saving many thousands of lives annually, as has often been very rashly stated, the stern facts recorded in the Annual Reports of the Registrar-General prove beyond all question that in the best vaccinated city in the kingdom - that which prevailed among the unvaccinated before compulsory vaccination laws were passed; that the number of cases of illness from smallpox has nearly doubled, and that the relative number of deaths of adults has also greatly increased. At the time of the plague it was observed that while smallpox was almost exclusively confined to children, the plague occurred principally among adults; that persons having once had an attack of smallpox were seldom known to have a second, but second and even third attacks of plague were of common occurrence ; and that while the plague was found to be highly infectious, smallpox was regarded as being only contagious, or but very slightly infectious. But smallpox is now regarded as the most infectious of existing diseases, and for some years past numerous cases of second attacks have occurred among both unvaccinated and vaccinated persons, and, as I have already shown, it is now more fatal to adults than to children. It is evidently, therefore, gradually assuming the leading features of the dreaded plague; and, as it is at the same time rapidly extending its ravages in spite of vaccination, it becomes a matter of grave importance to ascertain the cause of the change in order that means may be devised to arrest its progress and counteract its effects. 