VACCINATION   Brought Home to the Yeople,  BY  MISS CHANDOS. LEIGH HUNT.  REPORT IN THE “MEDIUN,” 942 June, 1876.  “Three medical gentlemen present complimented Miss Chandos  Teigh Hunt on ma given the best lecture on the subject they had  ever heard.”  LONDON :  JAMES BURNS, 15, SOUTHAMPTON ROM, HOLBORN, W.C. a This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms K dication.   To Onz ”  Who has lifted me from Mental Darkness to Light:  To ONE  Who has Rescued me from a Premature Grave,  as he has hundreds of others :  To ONE  Who has Saved me untold Suffering  as he has thousands of others :  To ONE  Who will Enlighten all Mankind who listen to his Teaching,  how to overcome and keep from Disease and Barly Death : ”  THIS ONE IS  my is Dical KNSEructor:  TO WHOM I DEDICATE THIS LITTLE WORK,  As a Token of my Gratitude to him for the assistance he has  rendered me in its compilation,  And as a proof that his teachings have not been altogether wasted. |  CHANDOS LEIGH HUNT.  : > S r me pemet This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms CONTENTS.   Introduction—State of medical science—The analysis of the investi-  gation—The new science of medicine—Created diseases too numerous  for nomenclature—Original sin and disease synonymous—Paradoxical  theory of Vaccination—Adding to disease is murder, &c.—The modern  Herod and his subjects—Medical jugglery—The blinding innocence of  the operation—Barbarous origin of Inoculation—The testing of six  condemned criminals, who recovered, and hence it was adopted—Alleged  to be of divine origin—O1d theory of smallpox epidemics—Death from  Inoculation attributed to supposed latent diseases—Theory of Inoculation  —Reputed benefits—Glowing statistics—People frightened into Inocu-  lation by medical trickery — Doctors discovered themselves to be  poisoners—Doctors licensed to kill—Jenner’s discovery and theory of  Vaccination—Law of inoculated disease—Iarly vaccinated patients died  of consumption, including Jenner's son—Glowing statistics—People  frightened into Vaccination by medical trickery—Blood-poisoning by  Tnoculation made penal—Blood-poisoning by the same pzs (Vaccination)  made compulsory—Promise of 40,000 peoples’ lives to be annually saved  —£830,009 and taxation of £100,000 under the poor-law annually—  Views of Dr. Collins—His children unvaccinated—Failure of  vaccination  tion—Number of punctures increased—Annual Vaccination by Jenner—  Dreadful catastrophy; cowpox dies out—Scientific manufactory of cow-  pox from consumptive horses—History and philosophy of smallpox—  Immunity from smallpox after smallpox—smallpox a beneficial erup-  tion—New absolute science of absolute medicine discovered— Vaccine de-  monstrated to be smallpox matter — Philosophy of epidemics—Jenner  considered cowpox, smallpox, chicken-pox, and swine-pox to be one and  the same—Mild vaccine virulent in delicate children ; the healthy only  vaccinated— Household familiarity with disease since Vaceination—Devil  and diseases versus God and health—“ PURE Zympk” not fermentable  —An intentional LIE—The healthy proof against smallpox—Incurable  diseases produced by drugs— Cause of deaths of “insusceptible” children  from Vaccination—Refusal to vaccinate ; why ?—Two wrongs never make  one right—Organie disease universal—Vaceination promised to decrease,  and not to increase disease—False statistics—Increasing mortality—  Medical men blinded by self-interest—150 years’ Inoculation, where  practised, has implanted smallpox and every form of disease in everyone  born—Evil tendencies hereditary and inoculated—Thirty years’ com-  pounding of the same diseased matter among 5,000 children—Unvacci-  nated high-caste Hindoos free from smallpox or any form of disease—  Imprisonment of a doctor for vaccinating with bad matter—Inability of  the medical men to discern bad pus from good, or mild from virulent—  Mr. Sclater-Booth’s coadjutors profess to know good from bad—Bad is  the best of it—Mr. Sclater-Booth led by the nose—Horrible effect of  Vaccination — Forty children and twenty nurses badly infected by  Government lymph at Revalta, in France—No one punished—Mcrtifi-  cation and amputation of over a dozen soldiers’ arms through one morn-  ing's Vaccination—Erysipelas from Vaccination—Fearful mortality in This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms ü CONTENTS.   1863 from Va`cination—No Government returns since 1867! what is  the reason ?— Phe statistics of Austria and Sweden—The most healthy  made diseased equally to those hereditarily disease«d—Inquests on those  killed by Vsceination—False verdict—Refusal to erect tomstone with  “ Died from Vaccination ” on it—Sir Culling Bardley killed by Vacei-  nation—Queen’s arm dangerously inflamed through Vaccination— Mr.  Sclater-Booth’s insusceptibility—Ixcuses for virulent or fatal effects—  An infant vaccinated from the  smallpox  pustules of a corpse—Air germs  —NINE times vaccinated and non-taking: the philosophy of—smallpox  on the Arican Coast; of six insusceptible cases four had smallpox and  two died —smallpox is chronic with us—Injustice of the Act—HRraudu-  lent doctored statistics at Banbury, &c.—Taking smallpox sev years  after being vaccinated, the case is registered as twnvaccinated, but  escaping smal!-pox any number of years after seven, Vaccination gets  the credit—84 per cent. of the smallpox Hospital cases are vaccinated—  Fraudulent statistics at Leeds exposed by Mr. John Pickering—In 1871  and 1872 23,126 and 19,094 died of smallpox in these kingdoms—Dr.  Keller's Austrian reports—Proyves that the mortality of the Żealtky vacci-  nated population is higher than the unhealthy unvaccinated— Prussian  statisties— Vaccination worse than Incculation—Compulsory Vaccination  abolished in Glaurus and Isle of Man—500 children in Banbury unvacci-  nated—Anti-Vaccination Leagues all over the country—Imprisonment of  the Keighley Guardians—Dread of smallpox created by the doctor's  ignorance— Change of type in the disease—Phagadenic pus, from whence  comes it ?—Jenner'’s description of cowpox; he believes the grease to be  the source of smallpox and cowpox— Vaccination diseases all for the  offences of a few—Pus matter is dirt, ¢.e., matter out of place—Dr.  Pearce before the Parliamentary Committee— Vaccination and smallpox  are cause and effect—/White corpuscle the DEATHm-principle in man—  Longevity of the unvaccinated Hindoos—Natural focd is bottled-up  sun's heat—Shoddy foods—BStupidity of the doctors—Origin and unity  of disease discovered by an outsider—Degrading oath of the doctors—  Medical science not advanced since Christ's time— Vaccination among  the Hindoos—98 4 per cent. “taken ”—Fallacy of insusceptibility—  White corpuscle a parasite— Vaccine pus entirely white corpuscles—  Idiotic state of physiological science with reference to the blood— Wite  corpuscles hunting each other—Vaccination law is your money AND your  life—DEnucrions from facts—ConNCLUSION—AÅPPENDIX.  AUTHORS CONSULTED IN PREPARING THIS LECTUREFE.  Banke, Baron’s “ Life of Jenner,” O. J. Bell, Blane, T. Brown, Bryce,  Ceeley, Collins, Constable, D. P. Fry, J. Gihbs, Goldson, Gregory,  R. Grieve, Griffin, Hillary, Jenner, Jurin, Keller, Massey, Moore,  H. A. Nicholson, G. Oliver, Pearce, W. R. Ross, Sparkham, J. Thorn-  burn, Williams, A. Vintras,* &c., &o., &c. ; besides Parliamentary and  other Reports, English and Foreign Medical Journals; but the most  satisfactory source of information has been a large personal experience  and observation by self and others,  * Most of the above are medical men, writing both for and against Vaccination.  Their medical titles are omitted on account of space. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms VACCINATION.   “Man, prond man ; wrapped up in little brief authority,  Plays such fantastic tricks before high Heaven,  As make the angels weep.”  INTRODUCTION.  THE subject I am about to deal with is one concerning which  there is as much misunderstanding with the multitude and the  Medical Faculty as there is about the source of original sin; and, in  fact, there is between these two such an intimate analogy, that he  who does not comprehend the one will not clearly understand the  other. And, since no one of late days has offered a scientific  solution of this enigma, it is not to be wondered at that so much  misapprehension prevails about Vaccination, and everything in fact  connected with disease; since, in the dominant school of medicine,  there cannot be found any two medical men, who will agree  independently of each other, in the pathology and treatment of any  given case of disease, let alone any given disease. This blind-  leading blindness is very deplorable in such an august and preten-  tious, not to say expensive body, as the Royal College of  Physicians for instance; and is certainly far from flattering to the  mental calibre of the boasted lords of creation.  Taking a rather wide and more extended view of medical  iterature than usual, and discarding all time-honoured blundering  and plundering of men whose minds are set to a medical barrel-  organ time, the chief harmony of which consists in extorting money  for the undesirable services of shortening human life, I have been  obliged to examine more or less into all the unbeaten tracks, until  I discovered at last that a system had been perfected, which gave  the key to dispel all my troubles and doubts, and enabled me to  thoroughly understand Vaccination in a manner I had not dreamt  of before.  By the light thus received I now address you, and I trust  that by the time I shall have got to the end of my lecture I will  have cleared up most, if not all, the cloud of mystery which  still hangs over this question, and thus the minds of my attentive  hearers wili be enabled to thoroughly grasp Vaccination as it is; and  comprehend what it is that is secretly and perpetually under-  mining and obliterating the very foundation of the nation’s healih,  1. ss, mental stability, and prosperity. For it cannot be This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 4   concealed that there is being steadily multiplied and intensified in  us, diseases of such a horrid kind and kaleidoscopic variety, that  medical men are unable to invent or compound, from all their  voluminous vocabularies, suitable names for them ; so that, truly  speaking, disease waits upon nomenclature ; but, in this science of  chaos, doctors have such golden opportunities, and are so busy  creating new diseases, that they have no time to baptize their in-  numerable poisonous progeny.  DISEASE AND SIN SYNONYMOUS.  Know then that original and present sin consists in an artificial  mixing by man of the principle of disease or suffering, and death  resulting from it, with the health or happiness and life principle in  himself; and anyone who has been instrumental in accomplishing  this upon himself or others, knowingly, unwittingly, or ignorantly,  is, in plain terms, guilty of direct murder, suicide, or manslaughter,  whether such a result has been brought about by a love of gain,  an insane depravity, or a legal enactment.  Vaccination is the introduction of pus or disease matter into the  organism, over and above that which it originally possesses ; but  unless arithmetical addition can be transformed into subtraction,  or an iceberg into fire, there is a total abrogation of all human  reason and intelligence in the assumption of vaccinators, z.e., that  by adding toand multiplying disease, you thereby lessen it; for such  is the position assumed by those who pin their faith upon this  insane operation.  THE PUBLIC HAVE NO VOICE IN THE LAW.  From the dogmatic and tyrannical manner in which the  vaccination  tion business is conducted, it would seem thatthe public are neither  expected nor allowed to have a voice in the matter. No, you are  just to do as you are bid; you are not to ask questions, it is the law  of the land; and, if one or two of your children do happen to be  killed by the direct eftects of the operation, as many have been, yet  the same Herod orders your others to be subjected to the same  operation, on pain of fine or imprisonment.  All the public know is justso much as may hbe seen by the mother,  when in compliance with this compulsory law she subjects her  infant to an operation, of the true effects of which she knows literally  nothing, and the operating doctor when ones far less, but when  dishonest far more, as I shall presently show. The doctors tell her,  and she is led to believe, that her child shall henceforth have an  immunity from smallpox, and its consequent unsightly pitted face,  which often follows in the departing footsteps of the disease, and  that death from smallpox is of course impossible. This is the  consideration guaranteed by its discoverer Jenner, and for which  he was paid by the Government £30,000. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 5   INSIDIOUSNESS OF THE OPERATION.  The vaccinating operation is seemingly very simple, and the  mother merely observes the doctor or his assistant, make a few  slight and almost painless punctures with his lancet on the arm of  the infant, in three different places, into which incisions he  introduces a microscopic quantity of pus matter, called by the doctor  “pure lymph,” which has been attached to a slip of glass or ivory.  The mother thanking the doctor, leaves the dispensary ; the child  contracts the usual orthodox fever, &c., consequent, and three large  pustules, filled with pus or putrifying matter, rise on the arm, and  when they have arrived at a certain stage of the accompanying  inflammatory fever, some of the pus matter is extracted by the  same doctor ard carefully preserved to inoculate by a similar  process the blood of other infants. In time, the wounds heal,  leaving scars, and baby appears at the time to be but little the worse,  and is pronounced by the doctor to be duly and properly protected  against smallpox.  That which I have just described is termed a favourable case,  well taken, and properly performed, by a respectable qualified prac-  titioner, but unfortunately this result is subject to many sad excep-  tions.  HISTORY AND INTRODUCTION OF INOCULATION.  Before the introduction of Vaccination there had been an analo-  gous practice adopted in England, for about eighty years, called  Inoculation, the operation for which is accomplished by taking the  pus matter direct from smallpox pustules and introducing it into  the blood of healthy individuals. This operation has been per-  formed from as early a period as A.D. 550 among the most barbarous  nations, and it gradually spread over a great part of the world,  but was not introduced into England till 1721, when Lady Mary  Wortley Montague, who had studied it in Constantinople under  the name of “ engrafting,” and, being convinced of its properties  as a preventative of smallpox, had her own children inoculated.  At first it met with much opposition in this country, so, to test its  safety, six condemned criminals in Newgate were subjected to the  operation, and as they recovered, apparently uninjured, the cry  against it was lessened, though still great; but the doctors in time  approved of it, and insisted that it was highly sinful to oppose it.  (Said to be of Divine Origin.)  Many of the faculty undertook, or professed, to investigate the  affair in a just and unprejudiced manner. One of the leading men  of that day, in giving an account of the best method of performing  the operation, adduces reasəns for believing it to be of Divine origin,  and gave statistics to prove his hypothesis. In selecting subjects  for Inoculation, seemingly very stringent but very absurd laws  were laid down. For instance, each one must be in perfect health,  thus going upon the assumption that the sick requires no physi This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 6   cian, but the healthy do; and the doctors of that day held the old  exploded theory, that epidemics struck a permanent disease into, in  place of clearing out, a pre-existing, self-multiplying poison from the  body, as now understood ; therefore, subjects to be operated upon  must not have had smallpox or any other disease for some con-  siderable time previously, lest these diseases should happen to  be remaining in them, as they believed that the effects of Inocula-  tion under such conditions would most likely be fatal, and in-  numerable instances are given of patients, soon after being operated  upon, dying of most horrible deaths, up to complete mortification ;  but in each instance of this kind which was brought home, the  medical man insisted that death must have been caused by some  latent disease which they were unable to discover at the time, and  therefore it was not to be attributed to the Inoculation. Upon the  same principle, a man, apparently well, and bitten by a venomous  reptile, from the eflects of which he dies in a few days, should have  his death set dowr to some latent disease which could not be ascer-  tained previously.  Another stringent rule was, that all subjects for Inoculation must  be placed upon vegetable food, both previous and subsequent to the  operation, and if this rule was not strictly adhered to, whatever  dangerous consequences might arise, the doctor was to be held  blameless. (This is a very favourable and most important point  for the vegetarians.)  (Tts False Theory and Coloured Statistics.)  The theory of Inoculation arose from the well-known supposed  fact that few people as a rule contracted smallpox, or any oiher  similar disease, more ihan once during life; and this gave rise  to the idea that by artificially producing smallpox in the blood of  a healthy person, by a process analagous to what is now known  under the name of Vaccination, an immunity from smallpox  would be the consequence. That people who have thrown cut  a fuli eruption of pus matter from their body upon the skin in  the shape of smallpox, and recovered, without any deleterious  interference, safely and well, rarely accumulate sufficient pus  matter, during the ordinary term of life, to cause another similar  eruption to appear, is quite true. Thisis not, however, invariably  the case ; but to infer from this that a merely local pustule or two,  artificially produced in a few days, can ever take the place of  the full crop of a natural eruption, which often takes very many  years for the body to prepare itself for, is worse than absurd,—but  this point I will take up again.  Respecting the benefits said or supposed to be derived from  Inoculation, now made penal, I will read you an extract from the  book of an M.D., who wrote upon this subject in 1721. He  Says :— This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 7   “Let us now consider a little what may be the consequence in  case Inoculation should become a general practice. If we allow  what the opposers of Inoculation contend for, we shall find but one  in forty-nine to die of Inoculation, and in the natural way we have  shownit to be one in six; it follows, that if we substitute Inocula-  tion for the natural way, the number of the dead would be reduced  seven parts in eight, and consequently 2,000 persons,* that are yearly  cut off within the bills of mortality alone, those generally in tho  beginning or prime of life, might be preserved to their king and  country. Let the opposers of Inoculation lay their hands upon  their hearts and consider whether the saving of so many lives be  contrary to any precept of law or Gospel, We have been told,  indeed, and from the pulpit, too, that this practice came from the  devil. But if it prove thus beneficial and salutary to mankind, I  for my part shall make no scruple of ascribing it to a greater and a  better Author, and undoubtedly all sober and thinking persons will  judge and believe that the making known to the world the method  of preserving lives from one of the most terrible diseases in nature  can be owing to no other source than a kind and tender Providence  of the great Creator and Preserver of mankind.”  By such coloured statistics and flowery language as this, many  were induced to willingly submit themselves and their children to  be inoculated; but, when persuasion failed, we read that it was by  the doctors calmly considered advisable to create a panic in the  minds of the people, by the cry of a smallpox epidemic coming, by  which trickery the doctors boasted, and prided themselves upon  having succeeded in frightening large numbers into being inocu-  lated. Precisely the same stratagems were used in compelling the  unwilling adoption of Vaccination upon its introduction, and pre-  vious to its being made compulsory.  (Creates Organic Diseases.)  After Inoculation had been rigorously practised for nearly a cen-  tury, it was suddenly discovered by the doctors themselves that  they were sowing the seeds of hereditary diseases, in their most  fatal form, into hitherto healthy families, and that the most viru-  lent, noxious, and infectious complaints were being inoculated from  one child to another. Statistics proved that the mortality from  * This is an evident mistake, for, assuming that his figures are right,  that he me»ns the total number who died annually of smallpox. and the  average mortality to he thirty years, this would limit the population of  these k'ngdoms to 360,000; otherwise smallpox has, indeed, increased  enormously since Vaccinaticn has come amongst us, as he promises that  only 250 can die annually of smallpox under Inoculation, whereas we  see epidemics carrying «ff thousands, if not tens of thousands, under  Vaccination, and we must not forget that Jenner promised that  vaccination  tion would obliterate smallpox altogether. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 8   consumption, cancer, scrofula, and other fatal diseases, were in-  creasing to an extent terrible to contemplate in those days, and  when this was found out the practice was discontinued, except by  a few of the medical profession, who attributed this dreadful  degeneration of the human race to some other cause.  When we experience such blundering and tampering with life  at the hands of medical men, one cannot help thinking that those  certificates called Diplomas should be called “Licences to Kill,” as  one of their body unhappily expressed it,  After taking advantage of their medical certificates, and experi-  menting upon the public health for nearly a hundred years, they  confessed they had been merely multiplying the disease they sought  to cure; not only that, but the mortality had been enormously  increased by the dissemination of hereditary and organic diseases,  the developing of latent ones, and the introducing of fresh forms of  disease hitherto unknown, and thus they dared to play with the  lives of human beings, and bring upon humanity, already burdened  with sufficient suffering, untold excruciating tortures for untold  generations, upon the asserted safe grounds of having inoculated  six condemned criminals who were released from prison before  sufficient time had elapsed for the experimentalists to discover the  wholesome or unwholesome fruit of the diseased thing they had  SOWN.  HISTORY AND DISCOVERY OF VACCINATION.  At the end of the eighteenth century Inoculation came into dis-  repute, but in the beginning of the nineteenth a new method of  thoroughly exterminating smallpox from the face of the earth,  at once and for ever, was announced to have been discovered.  This new science was Vaccination, and was accidently hit upon by  Doctor Jenner, who heard a country girl give utterauce to the old  superstition, which was based upon Inoculation, that she “could  not become infected with smallpox because she had previously  suffered from cowpox.”  From this remark Dr. Jenner commenced a series of experiments  and researches, under the conception that if he could artificially  produce cowpox into a human organism, that this person in future  would have immunity from smallpox; and he tried his first ex-  periment in 1796, by extracting the matter from a pustule on the  hand of a girl suffering from cowpox, and inserted this matter into  the arm of a lad named Phipps, which operation produced upon him  an exanthemous eruption, èxactly ¿identical with smallpoz. Now,  according to the country superstition, the boy having had cowpox,  asit was called. he was unable to become infected with smallpox ;  80, to test this, Dr. Jenner inoculated the same boy with smallpozx  matter, which produced n0 apparent effect, and this fact was accepted  by him as a proof of the theory that cowpox was antagonistic to  smallpox. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 9   This, however, merely demonstrated the oneness or identity of  sw-pox and smallpoz. There is a well-known and recognised law  sonnected with every form of inoculation of disease, which it may  be well to mention in this place, and it is this: that the same form  of disease cannot repeat itself by re-inoculation into the same  organism from pus in the same stage of decomposition, immediately  after the first has run its fermentive course, and this will account  for the apparent insusceptibility of some who have been re-vacci-  nated eight or nine times, they being fully saturated from the first,  but unable, through deficient vitality at the time, to show even a  pustule on the arm. The boy Phipps just wanted this addition to  perfect that which in himself was near the culminating point of a  regular smallpox eruption, and it only wanted an epidemic state  of the air to produce, in a nore perfect degree, that which was pro-  duced by Vaccination. Phipps,and nearly all Jenner's earliest patients  who were yaccinated, died of consumption, including his own  son. The diseased matter, extracted either direct from the cow,  or from a person suffering either naturally or artificially from cow-  pox, Jenner called puve vaccine, (vacca being Latin for a cow), or  pure lymph, and this was the origin of what is now known through-  out Europe as Vaccination.  Upon the introduction of this, he fared no better than did Lady  Mary Wortley Montague, upon her introduction of Inoculation, for  he was opposed by the public and some of his own profession, but  there were many who took it up with warm enthusiasm, so in  time, by making experiments and adducing apparently favourable  statistics by the writing of pamphlets, displaying these statistics,  and by using similar language in favour of Vaccination as was used  in favour of Inoculation, it became rather more general. The  doctors began to push it upon the public, and when they could not  do it by powers of persuasion they got up the cry of smallpox  epidemic, and thus frightened many parents into even offering  themselves and their childven to be operated upon.  INOCULATION MADE PENAL AND VACCINATION MADE COMPULSORY.  The next proposal was to have it made compulsory by Act of  Parliament, and some of the assertions and promises made in case  it became general, are amusingly similar to those in favour of  Inoculation. For instance, in a paper by Robert Willan addressed  to Lord Henry Petty, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he says,  “In the character of statesman I cannot regard with indifference  a plan calculated to increase the population of the United Kingdom  *y preserving annually the lives of more than 40,000 persons.” By  such like astounding statistics as these being boldly presented, and  the doctors pushing it, it was easily made compulsory, and at the  same time, the very thing the doctors had previously pushed with  equal zeal, was made penal. When the Compulsory Vaccination  Act is read, this will be found attached :— This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 10   “ Any person who shall after the passing of this Act produce in  any person by Inoculation with variolous matter, or any matter,  article, or thing impregnated with variolous matter, or wilfully by  any other means whatsoever produce the disease of smallpox in  any person shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable to be  proceeded against summarily, and be convicted to be imprisoned  for any term not exceeding one month.”  The wonderful benefit which Jenner had conferred upon the  country was handsomely recognised by Parliament presenting him  with Thirty Thousand Pounds out of the National Treasury, and  since then the nation has been saddled with an increasing taxation  of over One Hundred Thousand Pounds annually under the Poor  Law, besides the private fees from five shillings to a guinea or  upwards from those who are too proud to be registered amongst  the poor. One would naturally expect some enormous boon to  accrue to a nation that pays so liberally for the protection of its  subjects from disease, and takes such care to compel the scheme  to be adopted. We shall see by-and-by what value we get for  our money, and how very logical and reasonable are those dictators  of our hygienic parliament. An immense amount of this is ex-  pended in purchasing vaccine matter, and the cost of the postage  to private practitioners may easily be imagined when we hear  of an appeal made to Parliament to grant that all packets of  vaccine matter might be transmitted ost free, but the bulk goes  into the doctors’ pockets directly. Dr. Collins, of Regent's Park,  admits he made £500 a year by it, and others we learn make vastly  more; but Dr. Collins gave it up in disgust, finding it produced,  and did not prevent smallpox. His own children are all unvac-  cinated, and the authorities have been challenged to prosecute him,  but they prefer attacking those who are unable to properly defend  themselves, in the east end of London, while they are called  cowards in the west, for they know Dr. Collins would alone be able  to topple the whole rotten fabric of Vaccination to the ground if  they attempted to prosecute him.  VACCINATION FAILS TO PROTECT.  It was discovered in course of time that this Vaccination often  failed, for the world continued to suffer from epidemics of small  pox, in spite of Jenner's promises that one puncture was all that  was necessary to ensure immunity for life from the disease. Then  one puncture in each arm was considered necessary, as if we had  gone back to the darker ages in which Inoculation was practised,  when the blood in the veins was not known to circulate; and,  therefore, puncturing one arm would only protect one side or half  the body, if so much. One puncture on each arm was tried, but  still failing, they tried three, then four, still it failed, then five, and  some doctors got so high as eight punctures, but still the cry is,  “They come, they come,” on both vaccinated and unvaccinated, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 11   The next theory started was that the vaccine protection died out  in seven years, therefore, re-Vaccination was considered necessary ;  that failed, so three years was considered long enough; even this  failed, so that Vaccination every year is now by many considered  necessary ; and this is not to be wondered at, for Jenner during the  last few years of his practice vaccinated his patients yearly. We  suppose the next step will be monthly, and that failing, we may  expect to have a Vaccination visit every morning before lunch, and  really this need not be wondered at, since it is found that some  break out with regular smallpozxz in from three days to a month,  after being properly and Zegally protected against it.  Manufacture of Vaccine from Putrid Ulcers of Consumptive Horses.  But in time a fearful calamity befel the doctors, for the cows left  off having cowpox, and the doctors became short in their supplies  of the pure diseased matter, so Dr. Jenner had to manufacture  a disease in the cows next. He traced the origin of cowpox to  emanate from the horse. It appeared that when horses suffer from  consumption and other diseases, Nature, in her efforts to expel these,  does so outwards and downwards, and thus throws them in the  form of ulcers of a more or less virulent and putrid character upon  the heels, this form of disease is recognised by veterinary surgeons  under the name of “the Grease.” Now cows with abrasions on  the skin, and coming in contact with this matter, become infected,  or inoculated by it, and afterwards throw the disease out again in  the form of an eruption which is called cow-poz; and Dr. Jenner,  by inserting or grafting the filthy grease matter from the horses’  heels into the blood of the cows was thus enabled to manufacture  cowpox and keep up a constant supply of pure vaccine pus matter  to be inserted into the arms of infants, to be again extracted from  sufficiently fermented pustles, and then to be used as “lymph,”  again and again for inoculating other infants with.  Now that we have described the origin of Inoculation and  Vaccination, and explained their outward forms of action, and  described the doctors’ theories, &c., we will next demonstrate  mathematically the real effects that are produced upon the human  organism by Vaccination or Inoculation (for they are one and the  same), and explain why such effects must necessarily be produced  upon every individual so operated upon. To lead up to this I will  first give its early history, and then explain what smallpox really  is, that all the mysterious medical twaddle is about, and by which  doctors manage to wheedle the nation into a worse than fruitless  expenditure, and grow fat upon disease and ignorance.  HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY OF smallPOX, &c.  We discover from ancient manuscripts that what is now called  “ smallpoz” was then known as variola, The word is of monkish This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 1   origin, meaning a tiny pimple, but after a time it developed into a “pock,” whìch is of Saxon origin, and means a bag -or pouch, con- taining matter. The disease still developes and progresses as the  world grows older, till we have what is called the confluent stage; in which several pocks or pouches run into one, thus it becomes a large pox instead of  smallpox , and this disfigures the skin so  much.  smallpox is an exanthemous or skin eruption, produced by  Nature’s efforts to eliminate a quantity of pus matter which has been in part born with all of us whose parents have been inocu- lated and lived upov improper food, &c. It has also been  accumulated in part in like manner in us during life by our  disobedience to Gods laws of health or the dictates of reason, until the system becomes so surcharged that the first favourable con- dition (such as an epidemic state of the atmosphere) calls it forth, and all who are sufliciently charged with this predisposition so as  to cast out the eruption of variola, are said to be attacked by small  pox. Nature, then, we see seeks to rid herself of accumulated  disease and dirt, which she does by setting up a fermentation of the blood, and throws the additional pus matter thus engendered,  ` together with the original pent-up matter, through the pores of the  skin, forming pustules. This pus matter consists of innumerable  minute living animal organisms, having enormous powers of repro- duction of their kind, in thin, poor blood; and according to the poverty of the fluids and the depravity of the original source from which the parent germs are derived, will be the virulence of the fever, the acridity of the matter, and the consequent intolerable itching, burning, stinging, irritation, &c., experienced by the  patient, as well as the tendency to phagadenic, or permanent pit- marks, occasioned by the exit of the corroding pus matter.  cowpox and every form of skin eruption are but the result of Nature's efforts to expel a ferment from the blood, and when the system is got once thoroughly cleared of it in this manner, it is very easy to understand why the same poison cannot be thrown out again, at least for a considerable time; since there is none or  but little to throw out, as it takes a clean and healthy body a very  long time to suifliciently recharge itself to this condition, except, indeed, a person lives much more grossly than we are accustomed p  to; and hence the reason of a person who ka: once had asmail-pox eruption perfectly eliminated, being supposed to have an immunity from a similar eruption for life.  It is a remarkable fact, and which I dare say many of you have observed, that everyone who has passed successfully through an  attack of smallpox (even when badly pitted) becomes wonderfully improved in general health afterwards, seemingly as if they had got a new lease of life. The increased vitality of pock-pitted  people is very remarkable, proving that the eruption has cleared  them of an incubus they were infinitely better without, and ex- This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 13   cepting for that disgrace to the medical profession, the, pitting,  they have been immensely benefited by it. Consequently, in this  light, smallpox should be looked upon as a blessing to humanity  (and which it isin our present surroundings) in place of a curse,  which is the usual idea about it. Ifthe people would only under-  stand thoroughly the lesson which smallpox teaches us, and knew  of a purely rational or scientific mode of treating it, they would  not require anyone like myself to have to hammer the truth thus  into them. I may here say (and I am pleased to be able to state) that  an absolute science of natural medicine has been discovered, and is  baing prepared for publication, which will include the eradication  of smallpox and vaccine matter from the human organism, as well  as all organic and drug diseases. Not only that, but it possesses  the means of scientifically proving the original parentage of all  fermentive diseases, for by throwing out vaccine, &c., on the skin,  a true variola or smallpox eruption appears.  PHILOSOPHY OF EPIDEMICS.  An epidemic state of the air is merely a condition which excites  or aids nature to throw out that which has already existed in the Vood  and tissues from birth, or which has been acquired during life by  using wrong foods, Vaccination, Inoculation, &c., so that smallpox  matter is in everyone in a degree, and can be seen through a good -  microscope by anyone. When a person with a naturally good  ċonstitution lives very abstemiously and purely, the blood proper,  becomes so modified in specific gravity and quality, that the minute  proportion of smallpox matter in him will be unable to ferment or  multiply in any great or virulent degree, and, therefore, when an  epidemic state of the atmosphere arises, it will be unable to excite  the blood to ferment into an eruption; or, if it does, it will be  a very mild form of chicken-pox, &c., because less putrid in  character. The eruption in its most virulent form is called small  pox ; but, chicken-pox, cowpox, and smallpox, are but one and  the same fermenting poison or xs, and only differing in severtiy,  intensity, or activity, according to the state of the blood of the  person inoculated with it and the source from which it comes.  JENNER BELIEVED smallPOX, cowpox, &C., TO BE ONE AND  THE SAME DISEASE.  Dr. Jenner himself, when he announced Vaccination, as an antidote  to smallpox, was strongly impressed with the idea of the common  origin of human epizootic maladies, and conformably with this idea,  viewed smallpox as a most remarkable malady which equally  affects man and the lower animals, and this malady, in its least  malignant form, a:sumes the form of cowpox, chicken-pox, and  swine-pox; and be believed not only that smallpox and cowpox  were essentially the same disease, but that the former was a  malignant variety of the latter parental malady; and this surmise This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 14  of his accords perfectly with the most recent microscopie dis-  coveries connected with the blood.  It is known to all who have studied the subject thatthe apparently mildest form of vaccine, when inserted into the blood of a weakly or unhealthy child, often results in a virulent form of smallpox or something worse when it is not fatal, and that is thə reason why doctors refuse to vaccinate such; and although they may do their best to provide what they conceive to be the mildest or least  virulent pus matter (for that’s what the microscope discovers it to  be), yet there is not one of them can distinguish good from bad, or  discover any difference between cowpox, smallpox, swine-pox, or pus from ulcers, either by chemical analysis, spectrum analysis, or the microscope, when they are at the same stage of development, which proves that these matters are one and the same thing accord- to Jenner's own theory, and although Vaccination and Inoculation are exactly one and the same, yet the one is legalised, compulsory, and rather worse in its effects, while the other, which is the milder, is  a criminal offence; that is to say, for neglecting one, the most noxious, you will have a month's imprisonment, and for performing the other, the least injurious, you will get a month’s imprisonment, Such is the very logical hygienic philosophy of our medical Solons and our nose-led Legislature of this Century of Wisdom.  Should you take the trouble to read our modern medical works, you will find that the various stages of smallpox are well-known and anticipated, yet the physician amongst his thousands of drugs, nicknamed medicines, does not possess a single specific for curing or r?  eradicating this or any other known disease in the world, but like their brethren of the darker ages, who inoculated for the smallpox, they look upon this disease as certain for everyone to contract  as that they should grow their finger nails. This is clear, or why would they order everyone to be vaccinated over and over again, as long as the life does not succumb to the operation ?  Vaccination the Predisposing Cause of other Epidemics besides  Smallpox.  In ancient times, it is true, they had not so many diseases  manufactured to their hand as we have now in our more  enlightened age; for since the introduction of Vaccination, every mother is taught to look out for whooping-cough, measles, croup, thrush, scarlatina, quinsy, diphtheria, painful dentition, and what not, as naturally as they would expect that baby should cry  when hurt. Indeed, so orthodox are these diseases become that  some people look upon them as necessary blessings from God in his mercy, for the purpose of mortifying the body with pain and agony, before he can operate upon or exalt the spirit to a proper sense of His almighty power, and thus He is pleased to display His love for us in plague anl pestilence. But when we analyse  this part of the subject, we find that nature is more merciful to us, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 15  but still she keeps to her laws; and by our breaking them, as the  term goes, we learn that certain causes produce certain effects, and  thus by experience we are taught what is good and what is evil for  us, and find that the devil or evil part in us is that which pro-  duces our sufferings and diseases, and the God or good part that  which gives us absolute and prolonged health, with an immunity  from all suffering, mentally and physically, or a pure mind in  a pure body. This, I need not tell you, we search in vain for in  Vaccination.  WHAT PURE LYMPH IS.  Before examining more particularly into the effects of  vaccination  tion, it may be as well to explain what “pure lymph” is, which  term you find so often used with reference to “ vaccine” matter, as  medical men and their parasites would wish to inculcate to the  unthinking that these are synonymous terms.  When a person breaks the skin and a little watery fluid oozes  out, which in time forms the healing incrustation, sealing the  opening from the air bythe first intention, and the part skins over  without suppurating, this is pure lymph, and to get pure vaccine  lymph this watery fiuid would have to be extracted from a cow in  a perfectly healthy condition, and that would be pure vaccine lymph ;  and yet the doctors, /nowing this, play upon the ignorance of the  people and of our legislature, by lyingly calling the most disgust-  ing corrupt matter they choose to so cruelly manufacture in the  poor beast pure vaccine lymph ! for if they did inoculate with pure  lymph, the effect would be the same as though they used a little  distilled water, and from this it is easy to see with what design  such a name has been chosan. It bears a lie on the face of it.  PERFECTLY HEALTHY PEOPLE PROOF AGAINST smallPOX.  From the foregoing it will be readily understood that perfectly  healthy people are proof against smallpox and all other epidemics.  It is only those with a hereditary taint, or that have been inocu-  lated with disease, or that live upon wrong foods—which partially  or wholly saturate the fluids and tissues of the body with ferments  —who are predisposed to throw out this form of eruption; and  from this law there can be no deviation. If the system is labour-  ing with latent disease, or is about to throw it out in an eruption,  it is well known by medical men that if some mineral, vegetable,  or fermenting poison is introduced into the stomach or blood,  the threatened illness will be what is called “ warded off,”—that  is, driven inwards, and the diseased matter compelled to accumulate  more and more, in consequence of the vitality being lowered by the  poison ; for, the pus germs being living microscopie animaleulæ, if  this accumulated matter is not expelled by the skin, some time ox  other, organic disease is bound to set in; and this is what is got  in exchange for the beneficial eruption of smallpox, when sup-  pression has been successful through the operation of the vaccine  B. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 16  ferment. But organic diseases are pronounced by all medical men  as incurable ; therefore the successful and permanent suppression or  prevention of an eruption, that would have come out if let alone,  wust end in premature death,  The Terms “ Susceptible” and “ Insusceptible”  (True Meaning of).  A knowledge of these facts and laws enables us to discover the  cause of the innumerable early deaths amongst those called #nsus-  ceptible children, for when Nature might have succeeded in throw-  ing off the primary, hereditary, or other disease ultimately, she  was rendered unable for the combat by the additional one intro-  duced. When the doctor does not discern the low state of the  child’s health, and vaccinates accordingly, and afterwards the child  sickens and dies, he boldly asserts that the after-illness was not in  any way connected. with the operation, as it was quite ineffectual  through the insusceptibility of the child, whereas it was only too  susceptible to the death principle which the doctor implanted into  it. If, however, he does discover the child's delicate condition, the  operation is not performed; and should such a child die, it has to  figure in the doctor's lying statisties as ?/ W were of a iruly healihy  child of an an wor dying unvaccinated, and as such used as  an argument jor Faccination. From this we see clearly that, with the  ostensible intention to protect from a disease, which, if properly  treated or let alone, is not dangerous to life, the patient is compelled  by this operation to complicate in form, increase in intensity, as  well as multiply infinitely, whatever hereditary dis2ases he may be  already afilicted with, to the ultimate danger of life. And this no  doctor can plead ignorance of, else why do they refuse to vaccinate  any? That which isgood forone should be good for all, whether itis  Taoculation, Vaccination, or Anti-Vaccination. Law is law, but  never disorder. Two wrongs never can maks one right. If doctors  can't see, or toil not see, they must be made to see. £  WIDESPREAD DISSEMINATION OF ORGANIC DISEASES THROUGH  VACCINATION.  Itis now observed that in almost every family in Europe there  is discovered to exist hereditary diseases in one form or other.  Consumption, cancer, serofula, and insanity are becoming more  frequent and developing into more deep-seated phases day by day,  and these have all increased sixfold since the introduction of  Vaccination, although they were admitted to have been enormously  increased, directly, under Inoculation ; but Vaccination, we were  promised, would set us right again and free us for ever from that  which had been creating all our diseases. We see now what value  is to be placed on a doctor's promise, and it is absolutely astonish-  ing to me to find in every family I go into in my practice some  trace of disvase of a hereditary character, as well as those clearly This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 17  traceable to Vaccination. The number of deaths, too, which are  also clearly traceable to Vaccination—years after they had been  operated upon—is truly appalling ; but these I need not tell you are  never put down in statistics to their proper source, because no  head or member of a family feels himself competent to pursue the  manslaughter to a successful issue against the sworn brotherhood  of the medical colleges and our government toadyism to that  insane and criminal body.  Drunkenness is fast becoming the ruin of England. Our prisons,  hospitals, workhouses, and asylums are overflowing with inmates.  Our mortality statistics are about as high as it is well possible for  them to be, the average age being about thirty years, to say nothing  of the fact that half our population in large cities are hurried into  the spirit-world before the age of five years. These are the effects  of some cause or causes, and we will see if Vaccination has any  hand in it.  During last century, be it remembered, smallpox was not be-  lieved to be a hereditary disease, and, consequently, other diseases  could not be sown by it through Inoculation; but since the  baneful effects of this operation, as a disseminator of organic  and all other diseases of the worst forms, has long since been  universally admitted and recognised, our laws have made it a  criminal offence for eyen doctors to inoculate anyone with matter  direct from the smallpox pustule. And we must further bear in  mind that it took all the combined wisdom and knowledge of the  nation, the doctors included, about eighty years to arrive at this  conclusion, after having been most assiduously and carefully sowing  every kind of disease through the Inoculation of this one, single  pus matter—the smallpox animalcule.  smallPOX MADE UNIVERSAL BY INOCULATION AND  VACCINATION.  Medical men, like other tradesmen, are blinded by self-interests  tis true, otherwise we should have something more unpalatable to  say of them. Upon no other excuse can they now attempt to hold  by Vaccination, for they must know, every one of them who is at  all read up in his own literature, that the eighty years’ Inoculation  of smallpox during last century—in combination with the gene-  rations since existing through marrying and intermarrying—will  have so intimately distributed the living germ of smallpox into  the fluids and tissues of every man, woman, and child in these  kingdoms, that everyone that is born must of necessity be charged  with it in a degree, and therefore to vaccinate from the arm of any  human being must be to disseminate smallpox, which is in all.  Yet in the face of all this they go on in the same mad, headlong  car:er as they did previous to Vaccination, when even the circula-  tion of the blood was unknown, and hence the monstrosity of the  old system of Inoculation, done under the pretence of preventing a This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 18  short-lived and beneficial skin eruption, which if they succeeded in  suppressing, organic disease was bound to set in. Besides, in the  process of Inoculation, when passing the smallpox matter from  one person into the blood of another, there must of necessity be  transferred at the same time the seeds of any other hereditary  disease that happened to be in the person from whom it was taken.  Naw, as I have explained, the vaccine matter is originally care-  fully extracted from a diseased horse, then passed through a cow,  which it diseases ; it then has to be extracted, along with whatever  disease the cow may possess, and put into the blood of a human  being to ferment with Äis diseases, if any, which fermented, cor-  rupted, putrescent matter is again taken, with whatever disease this  person possesses, to be inserted into the healthy blood of our future  generations. And thus, with a conglomeration of the extracted  essence of putrid, corrupt diseases, mothers are compelled by the  laws of free England to have their infants poisoned and sometimes  murdered by the compulsory infant-poisoning Act. Yes, itis infant-  poisoning and murdering by Act of Parliameni, and the same Par-  lament that puts a man to prison for inoculating human diseases  among mankind, compels you to inoculate your infant with not  only the diseases of human beings, but with those of brute beasts  İso.  T said drunkenness was fast becoming the ruin of England, and  increasing daily. In 1867 there were 52,659 bushels of grain  manufactured into beer and spirits—food enough to supply six  millions of people with bread. We have in the United Kingdom  600,000 drunkards; itis estimated that 60,000 human beings are  slain through drink yearly, and the nation has to support 140,000  criminals who are known to become in this condition through  drink.  EVIL TENDENCIES AND COMPOUND DISEASES IMPLANTED.  What has Vaccination to do with this? Why, itisa well-known  fact, and admitted by our first scientists, that evil tendencies are as  much hereditary as are organic diseases, and when we have such  confessions as are made by some of our doctors—Mr. Allen for  instance, who says that he has used the same matter for thirty  years, and has passed it from arm to arm of nearly 5,000 children,  —I ask you ñow ùt is possible for any one child to escape receiving  sll the known evils ìn the world, let them be organic or functional  diseases, dipsomania, kleptomania, or even a sanguinary desire for  murder? Matter whìch has for thirty years been picking up, first  the diseases of animals, and then the depravities and diseases in-  herited in 3,000 people, compelled by Act of Parliament to be  inserted into the pure blood of your invocent and beloved infants.  Why surely we should say,—make Vaccination pena? and Inocula-  tìon compulsory, for the former is far worse than the latter, and  the table I show you proves this fact. : This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 19  Drunkenness fills our prisons and workhouses, and increases our  mortality ; other diseases also fill our workhouses, hospitals, and  asylums. Has Vaccination anything to do with this? Think of  the diseases that have been sown in us, and which the doctors  openly acknowledge are incurable! Oancer, consumption, scrofula,  and. insanity they tell us are incurable, hereditary diseases in us.  To whom, then, are we to charge these villainously ignorant, but  nevertheless murderous monstrosities which occur in our midst?  Amongst the high-caste and purer-living Brahmins, pure water  and sanitary science are comparatively unknown ; and although the  Indian clime is most favourable to the development of diseases  through fermenting germs—putrid gases being continually gene-  rated in filthy congregations, cesspools, muddy, stagnant water, &c.,  and the air saturated with them—yet smallpox, cholera, or other  epidemic or organic disease, is unknown amongst them—hut #/ey  neither inoculate nor vaccinate. However, when any of them are  induced to change their habits and live aftér the manner of John  Bull, a few years are sufficient to develop in them our household  disease-pets, and smallpox and all other epidemic and organic  diseases seize them in spite of the most scientifically performed  Vaccination or careful drugging ; but this I will refer to again.  A VACCINATOR IMPRISONED FOR OBEYING THE LAW,  „I was reading lately of a case in the Medical Times where a  public vaccinator in Hamburg was sentenced to one month's  imprisonment because a child upon whom he had operated broke  out in spreading ulcers of the most malignant nature. In the  defence it appeared that the child from whom the vaccine pus was  taken had this disease, which only began to develop itself since she  herself ħad been vaccinated, the disease having lain latent till then,  The doctor defended himself by stating the simple fact that he  was quite unable to tell pure diseased matter from impure diseased  matter, and the impossibility to do so is acknowledged by the  Faculty; and this man, mentioned in the Medical Times as Dr. A.,  had one month’s imprisonment f0? being unable to do that which no  one else can do. The case was a most unjust one against the  doctor, but law is not always just. Mr. Sclater-Booth would like  us to believe that he knows better than this doctor, who was  imprisoned for his honesty; inasmuch as he alleges that his medical  vaccine coadjutors really examine all vaccine matter through the  microscope before sending it out; but since virulent and mild vaccine  are one and the same pus matter—the white corpuscle—and can be  seen in all stages of development from the most minute “germinal  matter” up to the full-blown parent cell with its nuclei, or young  progeny—in the blood of every fever patient, in the smallpox  pustule, and the vaccine pustule exactly alike—it follows that bad  is the best of it. Mr. Sclater-Booth is allowing himself to be led  by the nose by /is medical friends, for certainly he is made to This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 20  father an assertion which carries a fraud on the face of it, when Že  himself has not compared these pus matters side by side.  I shall have something to say concerning the injustice of our  Compulsory Vaccination Act presently, but I have first something  to say about the more immediate diseas2-producing action of  Vaccination.  DISRASES INSTANTLY PRODUCED.  Time will not permit me to enumerate cases individually, but I  have read hundreds of instances of children showing signs of disease  immediately after Vaccination, and from that time declining in  health rapidly till they died, covered with sores so loathsome that  the mother sickened at the sight, and had to have her dead little  one hurried out of the house for fear of infection ; and then often the  mother herself and those who assisted in nursing the infant were  seized with the disease in a more or less fatal degree; and there  have been cases of such sufferers lingering for many years, when  the patient has been a burden and expense to herself and her  relatives.  In Revalta, in France, forty children and twenty nurses became  covered with spreading infectuous ulcers directly after being  Vaccinated, and, in those cases, the vaccine matter was considered  pure, which fact, we learn from Dr. Viennois; and we cannot help  remembering and contrasting with this occurrence, the case of the  doctor who got one month's imprisonment for doing that which  the Government authorities did,—only they poisoned sixty human  organisms and the doctor only poisoned one.  In some cases mortification sets in in the arm operated upon,  which has to be amputated to save life. This was done in over  a dozen cases in India through one mornings Vaccination amongst  the men in the army.  Erysipelas, in the form in which we get it now, was unknown  until Vaccination was introduced; and in the Times of the 2nd of  November, 1863, we read that the mortality among infants was  quite unprecedented, and this, in the healthiest time in the year,  when wheat and other food was cheap, and no epidemic existed.  The doctors pronounced themselves to be unable to account for it,  but, upon examining the statistics of this time, we find that the  Compulsory Vaccination Act was carried out to a degree of strin-  gency hitherto unknown, and the rate of deaths of infants also  unprecedented. Itis rather a significant fact, and which we would  ask Mr. Sclater-Booth to account for: there have been no returns  of infant mortality published by our Government since 1867.  What is the reason? Has the above article of the Times, and the  Anti-Vaccination League, and other exposures, anything to do with  it? Tell the truth and shame the devil; truth has nothing to  fear; it needs not to skulk round corners, or resort to meanness or  misrepresentations. In Austria and Sweden we do get the results This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms S1  of Vaccination from official sources, and find in them that the  death rate is tncreased by the very disease which the operation of  Vaccination was intended to prevent; and the reason is obvious,  since the most healthy, who are the least likely to develop disease  during life, are vaccinated into a state of disease equal to those  partially diseased hereditarily, and thus have the seeds of smallpox  sown in them ready to crop up on a convenient occasion, and thus  they become as near as possible into that state in which children  are who are refused to be vaccinated.  Fearful and Fatal Effects.  Upon examining the disease known as erysipelas, we discover, it  is noticed, that its symptoms often set in after Vaccination; and  the truth is, that children who die from the direct effects of  Vaccination are registered as having died of erysipelas, &e., and,  indeed, though death often occurs directly through Vaccination,  they are seldom or never registered as such, nor of smallpox from  Vaccination either. Bad confluent cases so disfigure the whole  skin that the vaccine marks are not to be discerned, and, therefore,  these are all registered unvaccinated. Itisonly when a coroner's  inquest is demanded and a verdict distorted, or softened into “ Died  from being vaccinated with ¿mpure lymph !” that we get a faint  glimpse of the reality. When did anyone ever get vaccinated with  SEE  pure lymph? Why,it would not suit the doctors’ pockets. One  mother had placed on a tombstone, to be put oyver her poisoned  infant's grave, “ Died from the effects of Vaccination,” but she was  refused permission to erect the tombstone with this truth. Sir  Culling Bardley died from the direct effects of Vaccination a few  years ago ; and it must not be forgotten that the Queen ran the near  risk of losing her arm not long since through re-Vaccination; and  it would not surprise me to find that Prince Leopold’s mysterious  and long-continued illness would ultimately be traced to  vaccination  tion. Every ordinary observer can point to cases that have been  directly and permanently injured for life by Vaccination ; it matters  not to the poor sufferers in what shape disease comports itself after  the fatal, undying, fermenting poison is once insinuated into his  life-current, since absolute health is no longer his; and as the crude,  robust, hard-headed, unthinking tippler does not see, and cannot  understand, how a very little alcohol or other poison can seriously  upset a highly sensitive and finely-strung mental organism, so  these same sensitives, who are the closest observers of nature,  receive no sympathy from strong physical organisms, who may be  able to fight off, or combat with a hundred times the disease with  seeming impunity, that the delicate organism could not. Of such  a strong stock evidently is Mr. Sclater-Booth and all who get over  re-Vaccination with but little disturbance; but their doing so does  not prove that their life-span has not been ultimately cut short by  & great many years, for the operation of the vaccine poison may he This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 22  slow, but it is sure—upon the strongest and most robust—and it should not be forgotten that although the “ Claimant” was able to consume several } ot:les of brandy daily with seeming impunity, that does not prove that other highly sensitive organisms would not be killed or injured seriously by taking half a bottle at once; yet, such was the “reasoning” of Mr, Sclater-Booth in answer to the last  anti-Vaccination deputation.  Doctors Excuses for Virulent or Fatal Effects.  When marked cases occur, however, so glaring that there is no  possibility cf denying them, every possible excusə is made in  order to protect the system :—“ Oh, the operation was performed when the weather was too hot; the vaccine matter was not pure ; it had laid on the lancet too long; it had come too great a distance; the operation was not properly performed and did not take,” &c.  Let us analyse these few excuses, for they have many more, but these  are sufficient for our purpose—“ The weather was too hot.” There is  really some truth in this, for we all know that cold protects against  corruption, and heat aids the process of fermentation. It has been observed that men who have been going to India, and had previously been vaccinated in England, no sooner did they get into a hot  climate than the heat re-fermented the blood, and the previously healed pustules on the arm broke out again and sometimes ended fatally ; still, though this fact is known, mothers are to be seen mE  crowded together in the rooms of the public vaccinators with  infants in their arms as much in summer as in winter. We  wonder how medical men could dare thus to play with human life ;  but doctors, when they are thus used to it, will dare anything. Why,  I heard Dr. Drury state the other week that one of his medical  brethren had vaccinated a child with the pus taken from the  smallpox  pustules of a corpse, and the wonder is that the child survived the operation. It proves, however, how robust and strong are  some children by others, as every medical man must know that  suth an operation must be, in the highest degree, dangerous to life— the records of the dissection-room prove this abundantly. There  is another lesson which this case teaches us, and it is this; that  the pus and blood of the dead person could 0f have been #7 a very  putrid state when death seized him, and, therefore, it says very little for the medical treatment to let such a case slip through the  fingers.  Again we have the excuse, “The vaccine was not pure.” When  did anyone ever see matter which was obtained from diseased  animals that was pure? “Laid too long on the lancet and sent  too long a distance” has also some truth in it, for the matter being a fermenting substance, and by exposure to the air, becomes more degraded, as any putrescent mass must, and it no sooner enters the blood of the child than it sets up violent, dangerous, putrid fever instantly, instead of possibly lying in the system for years to crop This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 23  up in the form of consumption or some other organic disease, if  smallpox itself does not supervene and rid out the matter en masse  by the skin. Besides, the air itself contains the germs of innumer-  able forms of disease, as we all know, any or all of which may  become attached to the lancet, and thus get into the blood along  with the regular “ lymph ;” and in spite of this knowledge, packets  of vaccine lymph are constantly being received by us from abroad,  as, unfortunately, the cowpox among the English cows has died  out; thus some assert that the matter from spontaneous cowpox is  useless, but must be extracted from manufactured cowpox to be  effectual.  Those most injuriously affected by Vaccine not taken account of  Statistically as Vuccinated.  The next plea is that many of the punctures will not take, and  that under the circumstances the process is ineffectual, and has to  be repeated till it does. But in cases where it will of take, a  certificate of insusceptibility is granted, but not till the child is  subjected to the process many times; and I readin the Zancet of a  boy who was vaccinated nine times, and would have been the  tenth, only the mother objected.  When it issaid “not to take,” the fact is known by the punctures  not becoming inflamed or rising in blisters. The matter simply  R  sinks in and is absorbed, w/out the power of expulsion at the  time. In cases in which it is said to be well taken, the punctures  rise in high blisters or pustules on the arm—the higher, the more  successful the operation is considered ; now by our previous analysis  of this we find that “not taking” is in reality “taken” into the  system, but the patient lacks the vitality even partially to expel it.  A certificate is given stating they have been vaccinated, but the  sponsible for the unfortunate individual if he takes smallpox, and  which he still may do, or be infected with some of those horrid,  loathsome eruptions and ulcers which we often hear of resulting  from Vaccination, or even dies of organic disease directly conse-  quent upon the operation. But those upon whom the doctors have  operated successfully, being the most healthy, have such an amount  of vitality that they are able to reject a certain quantity of the  sa  matter; and those who are best able to do so are least likely to  contract smallpox during an epidemic, having, as a natural conse-  quence, more vitality or “resisting ” power—but which Vaccination  lessens. Now, is not this contradiction self-evident, though the  vaccinators can quote cases in support of their own views in their  arguments? Yet these in reality, when viewed in a proper light,  all lean directly to the truth against the practice, and not what  they wish to represent. To exemplify this, I will quote a letter  published in the Zancet, received from the African coast, and  written by Mr. R. A. Phillips. He says:— This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 24  “The smallpox has been terrible here, We had vaccine lymph  sent out, from which our Mr ooboys were vaccinated. I marched  fiye of them into the town, and vaccinated from them nearly two  hundred natives. Only 6 failed to ‘take’; of these, 4 Žad the  smallpoz and 2 died. Of those successfully vaccinated not one.  had the smallpox. Now let the Anti-Vaccination League say  what they will, here is a positive proof of the good results of  Vaccination, for the natives have been dying right and left.”  Here is the very thing; of the six that failed or “ did not take,”  as they call it, but in reality “took” most, four had smallpoz, two  died, and all the others that had sufficient vitality not to allow the pus  to ferment the blood too much (and, cərrectly speaking, they did  not take the matter so deeply), had sufficient vitality to resist the  smallpox epidemic, or they would have been laid low earlier.  Besides, by this time the epidemic was commencing to die out  naturally, as all epidemics do when let alone; but in the case of  smallpox, which is strictly an epidemic disease, and like all other  diseases of a like nature, if itis ıneddled with by medical men, it  seems as though it would never die out, but was settling into a  chronic national disease, which it is at present. :  PARTIALITY OF THE VACCINATION ACT, AND FRAUDULENT, LYING  STATISTICS.  Respecting the Act, the whole of it falls upon the poor. The  rich who object to vaccinate can bribe the Doctors or pay the fin2s,  or, if they do oppose it, thuy have means and more opportunities  of ascertaining, if they take the trouble, from what family the  lymph is precured, and could see that it was not taken from a child  in a badly-ulcerated condition, while the poor have no such oppor-  tunities, but are huddled together, often in badly-ventilated rooms,  to take their turn as they get it; and I speak from experience when  1 say that many infectious diseases are contracted in these very  rooms, as the poor come in contact with each other, when a number  of mothers have left a bed of sickness out of the fear of being  fined. I could devote a whole evening to the Act, but that is not  my purpose, and I will now show you the value of the doctors’  statistics. Itwould be a very mild term to say they are #ncorrect,  as we discover too frequently. For instance, I read in a recent  number of the Banbury Guardian an exposure of criminally false  statistics. Ten cases of smallpox occurred in Banbury, out of  which two died. These two were returned as unvaccinated, and  the remaining eight that recovered were returned as having been  vaccinated, but so far back that the effects of the vaccine had died  out. But the truth afterwards was found to be that all had been  once perfectly vaccinated according to Act of Parliament, and one  of the patients that died, TwIcE. Thisis but an isolated case of a  doctor returning a false certificate, but it as one instance of which  the bulk is a multiple, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms If the public only knew how statistics, as well as themselves,  were systematically doctored for the purpose of putting money into  the hands of the Faculty, they then would feel that both their lives  and the statistics were of but little value. I have shown that those  who do not take, in reality “take” most. Now, these are recorded  under the unvaccinated, and many of them die of smallpox after.  As it is declared by some that the operation can only give im-  munity for seven years, so if anyone over seven years of age takes  smallpox, the doctors consider they all have a right to register the  case as unvaccinated. But if, on the other hand, some of the same  family live a good age and pass untouched through a smallpox  G,idemic, they are registered as “vaccinated,” and Vaccination gets  vhe credit when it should be the absence of it by their own ad-  mission. Then we must remember that those who die of smallpox  after Vaccination, their deaths are registered is of from some other  disease—erysipelas, or what not.  Bearing all this in mind, we cannot wonder at the doctors’  doctored statistics, and their saying that a greater per-centage of  the unvaccinated died of smallpox than those which were vacci-  nated ; but still it is an acknowledged fact that in 1864 84 per cent.  of the patients that came to the smallpox hospital were vaccinated,  and 16 per cent. were not. This testimony must look strange in  the eyes of the public when compared with the per-centage the  doctors give of their own private practice, seeing that two-thirds  of the population are only said to be “ protected.”  Mr. John Pickering, of Leeds, in a threepenny pamphlet, has cx-  posed this tinkering of the doctors by having an investigation into  the alleged deaths of 115 cases from smallpox at Lseds, which the  doctors had returned as “unvaccinated ” in order to give a colour-  ing for the plea of continuing Vaccination. Mr. Pickering and  Councillor Kenworthy searched out about half of these cases  previous to the latter taking ill, and with the following result. Of  these he found—  6 living witnesses entered “unvaccinated,” all of whom had  been vaccinated.  9 deceased persons entered as “ unvaccinated,” all of whom had  been vaccinated.  Sy, »” entered “unvaccinated,” which should have  been entered “ unsuccessfully vaccinated.”  4 entered “ unvaccinated,” which should have  been returned “unfit.”  Hence he naturally infers that the statistics of the vaceinator  are not to be trusted—that as he, the vaccinator, has a craze to  support, he will do it, even at the sacrifice of truth, He further  remarks that, as in 1871 and 1872 (17 years after Vaccination was  made compulsory) there died in these kingdoms 23,126 and 19,094  persons respectively from smallpox, “ What has Vaccination done This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 Mayn Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 26  REMARKABLE CONFESSION or 80 VACCINATING DOCTORS.  There has just been translated by Mrs. Hume Rothery, and  ES in a small pamphlet form, the report of Dr. Leander oseph Kellar, Head Physician of the Imperial Austrian State  Railways, a copy of which I hold in my hand. It is one that ail!  should read, for Dr. Kellar has eighty doctors under him, and their  statistics he gives in a manner that imprints truth in the face of  them; at all events he does not show the slightest disposition to  conceal the truth, but shows forth the results of Vaccination in its  nakedness, although he and his staff are all yaccinators. He shows  as ckarly as possible that Vaccination makes the healthy rather  more predisposed to smallpox than the unvaccinated and most  whealthy, and that the greatest mortality occurs under two years  of age, and before they are vaccinated at all, and these are all placed  as agaimst Anti-Vaccination, many of whom they darent yaccinate,  “so that,” as he says, “from the second year of life the death-rate  of the unvaccinated is more favourable than that of the vaccinated.”  Here we see as clear as the sun at noonday that the mosi heal  axe being made more diseased than the admittedly most unhealthy  of the population, and this was over a population of 55,000 to  0,000, Rivided among railroad stations, work depòts, and ninety-  two villages with collieries, colonies, and lands.  I would also draw your attention to the large diagram on the  wall,” which shows you the death-rate of “vaccinated” as compared  with the “inoculated” in Prussia—the black lines showing the  mortality in each separate town or district—all of which prove the  accuracy of Dr, Kellars Austrian statisties. A review of these  facts so thoroughly speak for themselves that any further remarks  from me upon the point of statistics would be unnecessary.  ÉTER GREAT TRIBULATION” (OF THRE DOCTORS) APPROACHING.  ANTI-VACCINATION LEAGUES SPREADING. VACCINATION BRING  ABOLISHED,  T am happy to say that Anti-Vaccination Leagues are springing  wp all over the Continent, and already the canton of Glarus, in  Switzerland, has, on May 7th last, abolished compulsory Vaccination,  amd Vaccination has been rejected by the Legislature of the Isle of  Man. No doubt these are the first steps towards a general  stampede of the Vaceinators, If the people would only he true to  themselves, as they have been at Banbury and Keighley lately,  there would be short work made of this Moloch of the doctors; for  * Both Dr, Kellars Report and copy of the diagram can be had ef  Who “National Anti-Compulsory Vaccination Leagus ” for 1d. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms àt Banbury they have got some 500 children whose parents refuse  to have them vaccinated, and rather than prosecute this vast  number and answer the categories of the Local Government Board  on the dilemma, the Vaccination-officer resigned his appointment,  and up to the present the Banbury people are without that health-  distributing individual called a Vacecination-oflicer; and although  1s. 6d. per stab is offered for a Herod, none, for so far as I know,  have applied for this enviable post. In the meantime the Anti-  Vaccinators have been sticking ludicrous posters on the walls  inviting candidates to fill a situation not painted in the most  benign colours, and turning the whole affir into a ridiculous farce,  and the Vaccinators and Government into contempt. This is just  what all should do, for where pig-headed people will not think and  are not amenable to common sense, ridicule cuts to the quick; not  so deep, certainly, as the poisoned lancet, but let us hope more for  the cause of humanity, truth, freedom, and justice.  In Keighley, Yorkshire, has occurred a noble triumph. Seven  members of the Board of Guardians have submitted to be imprisoned  rather than be parties to enforcing Vaccination upon the people  contrary to their own convictions of its evil effects. All honour to  them ! their names shall liye in the history of humanity when  Jenner and all his bestial hosts shali be held in execration, or sunk  into oblivion. ;  DREAD OF smallPOX, &C., MEANS MEDICAL IGNORANCE.  The dread we have of smallpox has been entirely created by the  ignorance and maltreatment of that disease by the doctors them-  selves; first, by their saturating the nation with smallpoz through  Inoculation during a period of eighty years; and secondly, because  in that age everyone, including the doctors themselves, believed  implicitly in the virtue of physicing, in some shape. Thus it  was that the medical men were enabled to surround this eruptive  effort of nature with such greatly-increased terrors. By their yain  attempts at suppressing it forcibly—internally, with drugs, and  externally with mineral lotions, &c.—they so retarded and  belaboured nature in her efforts at expulsion, that the death-rate  and suffering increased considerably. The further shameful conse-  quence was, that those who recovered, in spite of all this adverse  treatment, had badly pock-pitted faces, where none or but slight  marks would have been had they been let alone ; and so things have  gone on from bad to worse, until Vaccination came and put the  ultimate climax of disease on all things; human reason became  dethroned and remains s0,  smallpox, as it was in olden times, would be scarcely possible  to find now in this age; the smallpouch, which leaves no pitting,  is nowhere to be seen, The nearest we possibly can have of  a resemblance to ít would be a mild “ chicken-pox,” as it is called ;  and therefore it is, that a much worse form of disease has been This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 28  gradually. replacing it, the peculiarity of which, is to burn or  corrode the true skin and leave pits or scars. This action is called  “phagadenic.” Itis for scientific minds to say from whence comes  it? Matter that can produce tumours of the body would alone  be capable of producing this effect. Hear what the “great bene-  Inoculation of “còw-pox” on the milkmaids, ¢e., Vaccination :—  “ Inflamed spots begin to appear on the hands, sometimes on the  wrists, which quickly run on to suppuration. Absorption takes  place, and tumors appear in each axilla. The system becomes  affected; the pulse is quickened, and shiverings, with general  lassitude, and pains about the loins and limbs, with vomiting, come  on. The head is painful, and the patient is even now and then  affected with delirium. These symptoms generally continue from  one day to three or four, leaving ulcerated sores about the hands,  which commonly ea sowły, frequently becoming ‘phagadenie,  like those from whence they sprung. ‘The lips, eyelids, nostrils,  and other parts of the body are sometimes aftected with sores.  No eruptions on the skin have followed the decline of the fever-  ish symptoms in any instance that has come under my inspection,  one only excepted. Thus the disease makes its progress from the  horse to the nipple of the cow, and from the cow to the human  subject. . . . What renders the cowpox virus so extremely  singular, is, that the person who has been thus affected is for ever  after secure from the infection of smallpox.” He further speaks of  the greasa” matter, as “possessing properties of a very peculiar  kind, which seem capable of generating a disease in the human  body, which bears so strong a resemblance to smallpox that I  think it highly probable # may be the source of that disease.”  Can anyone doubt from the foregoing the origin and character  of true vaccine ? and why smallpox must crop up after in those  called “insusceptible” cases, which will necessarily be of the  “ phagadenic ” type ? t.e., where fatal, organic, or internal ulcerative  disease does not prevent such a favourable result.  Upon what principle of science, reason, or justice, all the world  should be thus made diseased who are not so already, it would be  hard to discern. We are apt to condemn a school-teacher for  punishing a refractory or offending pupil, but infinitely more so if  he (as I have often seen done) punishes the whole school for the  offence ofone whom he has baen unable to find out. And so itis with  this idiotic de-Jennerate theory ; because the doctors know, or ought  to know, that the great bulk of the population in all ages have kept  offending against the laws of health, and so surcharged their systems  wìth pus matter, which Nature, under favourable conditions, throws  out upon the skin in the shape of smallpox, &c.; and a small  percentage of these are bound to crop up and throw out fevers of  every kind, eruptive and otherwise, at all seasons, and the mortality  be regulated accordingly. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms as  29  smallpox has done more to expose the ignorance and apathy of  the doctors than anything else, because of their inability to grasp  at or discern the naturaľ origin of the disease, and their worse than  idiotic methods of treating it; and, like the school master, they say  to the whole nation, “Now, some of you boys have found out how  to engender smallpoxin your blood, and if you do not tell us how you  doit, we will punish you, every man, woman, and child, with this  same disease, and keep punishing you eternally until you tell us all  about it.”  JENNER-OUS SUGGESTION FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE JENNERITES. .  This seems to me to be very like the position they have taken.  A little improvement would be to subject the doctors themselves  to an annual or monthly vaccination as practised and guaranteed by  Jenner, and then we would have such a decimating of anti-Christ  as would effectually rid us of this sulphurous host of Abaddon  in one very short Jenneration. Until some such action is adopted  there never will be good got in this world, Indeed, our increasing  crime and mortality is but the offspring of this one diseased root,  and if this medical trades-union is not legislated against and treated  as other political excrescences are, we need not be surprised to learn  that medical men will insist upon the adoption of Vaccination by  the vegetarian Hindoos, who are free from smallpox or any other  disease. Of course this couid only be upon the plea of civilising  them from their. present barbarous state of health into our delicate  refinement of organic diseases,  It is most humilating to our most potent and grave poisoners that  such a state of things should exist in India, our sister country,  under our very nose, and that we do not, or will not, see the higher  law that is there at work, It is not generally known, but it is  nevertheless a faet, that in the eyes of the high-caste Hindoos we  are placed in a much more degraded position relatively than are  the Fiji cannibals in our estimation, owing to our eating unclean  things.  Pus matter and drugs are living and dead dirts, and dirt is matter  out of place in the human organism particularly, yet these are the  chief weapons which have been and are used by the medical pro-  fession, and by which they compel us to multiply the diseases which  we wish to subtract and extirpate,  VACCINATION AND smallPOX CAUSE AND EFFECT.  Dr. Pearce has shown, in his work and before a Parliamentary  Committee, that the more we yaccinate, the more smallpox erops  up after. Vaccination and smallpox stand in the relation of cause  and effect, and bear a corresponding ratio the one to the other. But  this is not all, for Nature yaries her forms of elimination of this  one accumulated pus matter in the system according to the season  and other conditions, which medical men reengnise as “a change This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms in the type ” of the disease. Thus itis that in one year or season  we may have an epidemic of measles, in another that of whooping-  cough, influenza, scarlatina, typhus, &c., &c.; but these are all one  and the same thing, only in varied forms,—the multiplication of the  white corpuscle in the blood, which has been inserted by  vaccination  nation or otherwise; and Nature, in her never-ending efforts at ex-  pulsion, puts on these varied forms for eliminating this same white  corpuscle. The wie corpuscle is the death-force in man and all  animals, in whatever shape it compozrts itself in the kaleidoscopic  temperament or idiosyncrasy of the human race—whether in the  shape of simple fermentation, acetification, or putrefaction, and the  infinity of stages, simple and compound, consequent upon the pro-  ss of decomposition by this orginal parental disintegrator of all  rgan nature,  PHILOSOPHY OF DISEASE..  Disease in man originates from his attempting to exist upon  things as food, &c., which have not in them intrinsically the  requisite proportion of bottled up sun’s heat in the natural state,  from which all the physical force of organic nature is derived. The  Hindoo in his most unhealthy Äot climate exists chiefly on rice,  which is composed almost entirely of carbon; and yet with all his  unhealthy surroundingsin the shape of dust, filthy stagnant water,  and deficient sanitary arrangements, he is totally free from organic  diseases, smallpox, &c., and lives consequently to a far greater  age than we do with all our boasted civilisation and sanitary  scienca.  Thus wea see that our criginal diseases are the result of attempt-  ing to live in contravention or defiante of God's laws of health by  using foods, &c., contrary to those which He has naturally ordained  for keeping us in health, and in place of the natural organic carbon  of the fruits of the earth, which is bottled up sun's heat at first  hand and most difficult to decompose, we try to subsist upon nitro-  genous and one-sided shoddy foods, mixtures which are inter-  blended with pus and effete excretory matter of other animals,  chemical and other poisons. These are all deficient in natural  carbon force, or too easily decumposed—+.e., fermenting or fer-  mented up to putrefaction as in “Aigă game,” and therefore, besides  adding and engendering more pus matter to the original stock and  thus piling up disease, Nature is belaboured unnecessarily to try  and get rid of these other offending foreign materials. This it  takes her several years to accomplish under the best hygienic con-  ditions when disease and drugs have once got hold of the system.  To saddle Nature with more than she has already hereditarily,  and that in the shape of a “ phagadenic ” or “ pitting ` pus matter,  as vaccines, is carrying the fable of the “Man and the Ass” rather  far, for the former is compelled to swallow the latter, who has been  doing all his thinking and poisoning for him, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 3l  UNITY COF DISEASE.  Seeing that in and through this one matter, smallpox oY vaccine  pus, all the forms of organic disease with which we are acquainted  have been engendered (excepting the drug diseases, which are worse  still), it says very little for the medical fraternity as observers of  phenomena of disease that this fact, the great unity of disease,  has not been discovered and utilised by them to any scientific  purpose, but had to be discovered for them by one who is an out-  sider, and would not take the degrading oath that is required to be  taken in order to get a diploma.  In the pathology of disease, the game of “Blind Harry” seems to  be the leading game of the doctors from the time of Christ to the  present. The “woman which had the issue of blood for twelve  years, and had suffered many things of many physicians, and had  spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered but rather grew  worse,” was not worse handled, by a long way, than are those who  are doctored in our day.  In India, as I said before, smallpox and every other epidemie  and organic disease is unknown, except amongst those who reside  by the river-courses, and use animal foods and alcohol, &c. The  vegetarian portion of the inhabitants are the longest livers we know  of, and even inoculative diseases are unknown to them. With  those who live as we do, however, the same classes of disease spring  up; and we have managed to wheedle and cajole over half a  million of the gross feeders to allow themselves to be vaccinated  there, and we find that 984 per cent. of them all “took well,”  ALL OPERATED UPON ARE DISEASED ABSOLUTELY,  This proves the absolute certainty of every case receiving the  vaccine virus into the circulation, whether they are able to expel  the usual quantity of pus matter or not, and therefore we will not  accept of any plea of “non-taking” or “insusceptibility” at the  hands of the doctors.  We will now think for ourselves, and demand from the Govern-  ment the smothered statistics elsewhere referred to, and at the  same time refuse to be led like sheep to the slaughter, which  is the méaning of sacrificing innocent children to Vaccination.  What would be said of anyone who proposed to send a fresh  colony of rits or mice in addition to those already existing in  our corn-stacks, and thereby expect to prevent any of them  appearing outside the stack for the future? Would he be con-  sidered sane? Yet this is precisely what the Government is  doing by compelling us to be yaccinated. smallpox is hereditary  in every one of us in the shape of the “white corpuscle ” seen in  the blood and tissues. The white corpuecle is a living, thougli  minute animalcule ; it is a parasitical animal nevertheless, quite as  much as is a rat in 2 corn stack, but is infinitely 707e prolific. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms ACCINE PUS IS ALL WHITE CORPUSCOLES.  VACCINE pus is composed entirely of white corpuscles, the /y7mp  which accompanies it being quite inert, so that in the process of  Vaccination, these poor ‘“ Tom-fools in the middle” of our physio-  logical works—white corpuscles—are introduced into the blood to  destroy white corpuscles—a feat which, if actually accomplished,  would upset most, if not all, of our physiological theories. Not only  that, but the white corpuscle, which has of late been deified by our  scientific Solons under the name of “PROTOPLASM,” would be  made to give our evolutiontary friends a turn they but little expect.  The philosophy here announced in part is not of my own discover-  ing, but that of my instructor, of whom more will be heard by-and-  by. Discerning and advanced minds, however, will not be slow  to perceive that there is a crisis at hand, and that the philosophy  of the futura will be more mathematical and free from theories  than that of the past.  The length of time the doctors have had at their disposal since  Pape Innocent absolutely forebade the clergy to meddle with physic  in 1139, is surely long enough, in all conscience, to establish  something like a science in medicine for the treatment of disease ;  but when we find that so far from this being the case, they have not  yet been able to discover or show us one single specific medicine or  shsolutely scientific mode of treatment for any single given case of  disease, we think we are warranted in concluding that they are,  without exception, the most stupid, unscientific, helpless, good-for-  nothing, and God-forgotten set of men the world has ever groaned  under. Such an effete organisation as the Royal College of  Physicians and Surgeons the world has never been saddled with;  and, as such, we must look upon them as human parasitical fungoid  excrescences, and not to be tolerated any more than venomous  reptiles. Whether we look upon doctors as knaves or fools, it is all  the same to the sick, for their behaviour in Vaccination proves they  have no succour for the diseased; and, as for the healthy, they  will not be allowed to be so longer. The Act of Parliament says  they must ba made to sicken and die, and mulcted in money for  their pains. This has been well expressed by my tutor as  follaws : —“ The foot-pad claims your money or your life ;” but the  Vaccination law is, “ Your money AND your life!”  Tf Parliament had made a weekly hot-bath compulsory, they  might have had some beneficial sanitary offect upon smallpox and  every other skin disease. The law that the blood must be in  a predisposed condition before an exciting cause can have effect,  seems to ba totally forgotten, or purposely put aside if known.  From the foregoing facts I think we are warranted in drawing  the following ten conclusions :—  1. That smallpəx is not a necessary disease so long as hygienic This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 33  laws are followed, and is, therefore, a result of the infringement of  these laws.  2. That proper sanitary conditions will improve our state  whether we live under strict hygienic laws or not.  3. That the forms of disease called smallpox, swine-pox, chicken-  POX, cowpox or vaccine, and all forms of organic and fermentive  diseases are one and the same thing.  4. That all vaccine or pus matter, has, under favourable condi-  tions in the human blood, an illimitable self-multiplying power,  exactly the same as brewers’ yeast, of which it is the prototype.  5. That all fluid animal and vegetable substances coming in  contact with air, ferment and decompose from the yeast which the  air holds in suspense, thereby becoming more deteriorated and  degraded for the life-purposes of man; consequently, vaccine pus  in its contact with air, must of necessity become more and more  degraded and putrid in character by transmission from one to the  other, and from generation to generation.  6. That under certain predisposing conditions of the patient, the  matter that may produce seemingly a mild form of fever in some  after being vaccinated, may produce most virulent putrifying,  phagadenic ulcerous effects on others.  7. Thatin the healthiest, or those least predisposed to epidemic  diseases of any kind, Vaccination imparts to them an increased  predisposition to smallpox and other epidemic diseases, as seen by  the growing increase of disease in the statistics of mortality sincs  the introduction of Vaccination.  8. That the more healthy, vital, or robust, who throw out  pustules quickly after being vaccinated, with but slight febrile  disturbance, prove by these phenomena, that they are the Zeast  susceptible to its fermenting influence; whilst those who do not  throw out pustules in the usual time after being vaccinated, are less  able to combat and expel the poison, and are, therefore, the most  susceptible ; because, if smallpox, or some other form of eruption,  does not in time relieve them of the internal vaccine, they must of  necessity die of organic disease ultimately, which is smallpox matter nevertheless.  9. That medical men have been deceiving the Government and  the public, intentionally or unintentionally, by using meaningless,  if not fraudulent terms, to express certain phenomena connected  with Vaccination; and bearing in mind the awful and fatal results  of Inoculation during the last century, we must look with more  than suspicion upon everything emanating from that body. :  10. That medical colleges are institutions in which is not taught  the healing of any single disease; but, on the contrary, are manu-  factured scientific ignoramuses or knaves, if not poisoners; who,  are all bound together by a secret oath, by virtue of which, they  effectually shut out from their education all true scientific discoveries  connected with eradication of disease. : This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 34  CONCLUSION,  Such being the state to which we have been brought through  the malpractices and false teachings of the doctors, it behoves us to  be up and doing ; to stand no more nonsense, but to take the bull  by the horns, and not allow ourselves to be trampled upon any  longer. We condemn those few fanatics who voluntarily consign  themselves to the wheel of Juggernaut; but here are we with  a bestial practice, a medical Juggernaut, which sacrifices the lives  of the whole population at an untimely age in one universal  immolation. Accursed and tyrannicallaws havein all ages excited  masses of mankind to rebellion; but never in the world’s history  has such an iniquity been allowed to exist so long as Vaccination  has, without the perpetrators of such inhuman cruelties meeting  with their deserts at the hands of an enraged populace. Such an  univyersal outrage against common sense is without a parallel in the  history of the world.  Those who are so disposed can not only prevent the accumulation  of pus matter in the system, but absolutely eradicate that which  already exists by ayoiding all drugs which lower the vitality, all  unnatural or one-sided foods, and more especially the flesh of  animals, all of which are diseased more or less, and some of them  are borrowed from the butcher for the purpose of diseasing them  with putrid matter in order to obtain the “pure lymp” (!) called  to our carnivorous neighbours at 10d. per pound.  To parents I would say, pay fines or be imprisoned a hundred  times over rather than be guilty of such cowardice as allowing your  poor innocent and helpless children to be poisoned, tortured, and  killed without the power of thinking, judging, and refusing for  themselves. If the medical fraternity are such cowards as to do  that on infants which they would not do to themselyes and dare  not enforce on the adult population, although they know they  require it at least as much, if itis really of any practical benefit  to mankind; itis not for you to be so unjustly tyrannical to your  own helpless and innocent children as to be accessory to their  slaught:r.  It after all the truth is known which lies at the back of Vacci- ation (for there is a large field which I have not touched), any  dared, even with the law at their back, to continue this murderous  practice, in one year there wouldn't be a living vaccinator to tell the  tale. Nothing but the drunkenness of the nation could have pro-  duced our present apathetic unthinking condition, which has  allowed things to culminate to such a degree that we are passively  led into, poisoning not only ourselves but our future generations,  with disease in its most concentrated form every moment of our  lives, and that in so systematic and effectual a manner that if the  Essence of Satan himself in a personal form, with all his innumer This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 35  able hosts, had come to earth to invent a plan for the dissemination  of disease and sin, suffering and death, they could not have worked  in a more successful manner than the doctors have done and are  doing. If the devil delights in torturing, as it is represented, then  indeed must he revel in Vaccination !  Bear all these things in your mind, and as you handle them in  enlightening your fellow-creatures will you become a blessing to  the world.  One man may do much in a lifetime, and the nature of that  much depends considerably upon the healthy condition of his mind  and body. Each one of you, if so disposed, can aid me in dispelling  the dreadful ignorance that is prevaling and has become such a curse.  to the countiy.  Hell is literally growing, and is spread over all the earth. Disease  is the physical or material devil of the world, the rottenness of  which is gnawing into the nerves, heart, lungs, brain, and very  bones of the people. Resist it by all just means in your power,  whether legal or illegal. Fight mentally to secure the basis of a  pure body for the residence of the intellectual soul, and health and-  happiness will flow into the place of disease and sorrow. Barth  will become the footstool of heaven, and then the prayer which is  now mumbled in the letter will be spoken and replied to in the  spirit: Thy kindom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is  in heaven.  CHANDOS LEIGH HUNT. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms APPENDIX.  smallPOx.  The outbreak of smallpox in the neighbourhood of Caledonian Road is assuming a serious character. No less than 52 cases have occurred, and already six deaths are reported. Yesterday the Islington Guardians at their usual weekly meeting had under consideration a report by the  vaccination officer, Mr. J. Broome, stating that during the pist week 29  fresh cases had occurred, all, with one exception, being in the same locality. The msjority of them had been sent to Homerton Hospital, and some were being treated privately. Mr. Broome submitted two specimen bandbills calling attention to the epidemic, and the necessity for vaccination ; one for circulation in the infected district, and thej  other for the remainder of the parish. Mr. Furlong said that smallpox  was not, unfortunately, conficed to the neighbourhood of Caledonian Road—a case had occurred in Windeor Street, Essex Road, and another in Halton Road, Canonbury. Mr. Young hoped the bills would not be g  published, as it was not necessary to alarm people. After some further  discussion, it was resolved not to publish any bandbills or notices on the  subject at present.—Daily Telegraph, September 29, 1876.  [We would again ask of what use is this Parliamentary pro-  tection? Wherein consists its disease-resisting influence, when it  creates spontaneous centres of infection amidst its /egal/ly protected subjects? If it gives any immunity at all against an epidemic,  what right have the protected to be so perverse as to take  smallpox  in spite of Mr. Sclater-Booth and his microscopic scientific  Solons? Alas! the vaccinated, like the rest of mankind, are very  ungrateful for the most expensive favours, however well meant. A certain dark place is said to be“ paved with good intentions ;”  did Vaccination originate this idea ? |  Å SINGULAR VACCINATION CASE  Came before the magistrates at Bow Street, London, very recently. Mts. Kilcher, a German, appeared to an adjourned summons to answer vs  a charge of not having vaccinated ber child. Since the previous hearing  the child had been vaccinated, and the summors was withdrawn, but  costs were asked for. The defendant refused to pay the costs, and called  attention to the state of the child. Its arms down to the elbow were  swoìllen and inflamed, on its face were eruptions, and the defendant stated that her child had had fits since it had been vaccinated.  Mr. Flowers confessed that he had never before seen a child in such a state, and Mr. Yardley agreeing said he would pay the costs himself. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms the ViTALITY or smallPox GrnRMs.  A curious case of vitality or development of disease germs comes from  Dover. The mortuary of Dover Workhouse was pulled down a few weeks  ago, and some of the pauper ch'ldren thought it an excellent opportunity  to improve the resources of their playground, Among- the rubbish they  found some loose timber, which a little ingenuity turned into a swing,  and the trestles on which the coffins of paupers w:o bad died from  smallpox used to be supported were transformed into a see-saw. These  children had not been outside the walls, nor was there any smallpox in  the workhouse, but they were all seized with symptoms of the disease.  Dr. Robinson, the local medical officer of healih, is confident that the  poisonous germs, having been locked up in a chrysalis state, were roused  into actual life when liberated by the breaking up of the materials of the  dead-house, and thus exposed to the oxydising influences of the atmos-  phere. ‘The case is an i:lustration of the necessity of thorough disinfec-  tion in all cases of infectious diseases.—Newtonard’s Chronicle, 10ih  June, 1876.  [When we know that smallpox or other pus germs are but yeast  in a more or less degraded state, and that they are capable of  starting an instant fermentation in any warm animal fluid with  which they come in contact, we can the more readily see how  much really scientific knowledge is possessed by our recognised  healers of the sick, The mind that can attach such wings to itself  in fairy flights of imagination as to make the lowest organism of  the animal kingdom to become possessed of the attributes of  a butterfly—and that under the name of Medical Sèience—only  proves the ignorance of the medical fraternity, and the wonderful  gullibility of the Press, to allow such gingerbread horses to pass  muster as living high-mettled steeds. The point in this with  which we have to deal with is this:—As all these children were  presumably well cared for, in being 7r0per%y protected by Vaceina-  tion, of what use was this Act of Parliament protection 2]  @UTBREAK OF smallPOX.  Yesterday the guardians of the parish of Islington were investigating  a serious outbreak of smallpox in the district lying between Caledonian  and York Roads. Dr, Wilkinson, the district mdical officer, sent in a  report, from which it appeared that no less than 21 cases had occurred,  and of these seven had never been vaccinated. Nine cases had been sent  to the hospital, and three had terminated fatally, and all three were  unvaccinated cases. On yisiting each case Dr. Wilkinson had vaccinated  those persons in the house who were willing. Dr. Wilkinson recom-  mended a complete inspection of the underground dwellings in the dis-  trict. Many of the present habitations were but cellars, and the fact of  human beings living in small, dark, damp, and uuventilated bovels, was  alone sufficient to attract various forms of low-type disease. Mr. Cuffin,  a member of the Metropolitan Board of Works, considered that privats  practitioners should be required by law to give notice to the parish This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms authorities of every case of smallpox they were called in to treat. The  clerk was instructed to forward a copy of Dr. Wilkinson's communica-  tion to the vestry, drawing their especial attention to the matter. It  was also agreed to request the Local Government Board to consider the  expediency of medical practitioners being required by law to notify to  the parish authorities every case of epidemic disease they treated,—-  Daily Telegraph, September 22, 1876.  OPPOSITION TO VACCINATION.  At a recent meeting of the Ulverston Board of Guardiansa letter was  read from the Rev. John Postlethwaite, a clergyman of the Church  of England, in reply to a communication threatening him with legal  proceedings for the non-vaccination of his child. the rev. gentleman  stated that his eldest-born bad nearly died in consequence of his comply-  ing with the law, and that henceforth be would not expose any more of  his family toa similar risk. Asto paying fines he had steadfastly  resolyed to make no such compromise with a human law so at variance  with the Divine, but be should be quite ready on his return to go to  prison if the guardians thought it would tend to the benefit of the com-  munity. He concluded as follows: “As itis a rule amongst gentlemen  having business together to makea time of meeting as convenient as  possible to bəth parties, may I ask when the Guardians arrange for me  to yisit Lancaster Castle that they will give me as long notice as possible,  that I may arrange my work according'y.” It was resolved to go on  with the erse afier the lapse of a certain time.—Daily Telrgraph  September 16, 1876.  PROFESSOR NEWMAN ON the COMPULSORY VACCINATION ÅCT.  The following extract from a private letter was cited by Mr. S. Pride,  on behalf of his brother, who was summoned and fined for the third  time for non-vaccination, at the Liverpool Court of County Magistrates,  on Saturday last.  “The paragraph from the Liverpool newspaper simply shows into  what erue] and stupid Paganism the Press is drifting. According to  their theory, if a law be smuggled through Parliament to bid us worship  the image of the Queen and burn incense to a heathen god, we are to be  accounted perverse, and deserving no pity if punished for disobedience.  The law is a usurpation of unjust power, as well as in itself a monument  of drivelling stupidity. Alas! only countless martyrdoms will enlighten  an oyerworked Parliament.  “In ancient patriotic poems, men are exhorted in a noble war of  defence to expose themselves to wounds and death for their wives and  children. This war against the stupid wickedness of bad and fraudulently  enacted law is carried on emphatically for the saving of children from  poisoned blood; and parents who would think it their duty to defend  their children from an assassin’s knife at the risk of their own lives,  ought not to shrink from any legal penalties to save them from a  poisoned lancet.— Yours truly, “F, W. NEWA.  “ Weston-super- Mare, Sept. 14th, 1876.  “To Mr. Samuel Pride.” This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 839  DoDGEs OF THE MEDICAL FRATERNITY.  As a sample of the dodges of the Medical Fraternity in this Vacciha-  tion business, I have just gone to the bottom of the following case.  Thomas Harwood’s son, aged 6 years, Baldwin Street, E.C., died in the  smallpox Hospital on 31st Mareh, 1871. Except fora scar on the upper  lip be was totally unrecognisable by the father, owing to the fearful  putridity of the smallpox eruption, The authorities had apprized the  undertaker that the child had 0# been vaccinated, and the certificate of  death was so filled in, but the father refused to accept it—seeing the  child had been “ successfully vaccinated ” over four years before—and  demanded a fresh certificate of death. When it was handed to him, it  had in it the words “ unsuccessfully vaccinated.” This he also refused as  untrue, and went home and found the certificate of the “ successful  vaccination ” signed by Dr. Bruce, of Old Street, which he handed to the  registrar, saying “ What do you call that?” This personage said, “It  is plain enough that there must be some mistake ;” but it was only at  the time of the starting of the funeral, that the true certificate of the  cause of death was obtained as “successfully vaccinated.”  The father remarks that when the child took ill, the Dr. (Pottle)  insisted upon having him sent to the Union Hospital owing to the  danger to the other children; all of whom the doctor knew had been  also “successfully vaccinated.” This opened his eyes a little as to the  absurdity of Vaccination; as it is doing the whole nation gradually at  present. People naturally ask, If doctors themselves cannot see any pro-  tection against smallpox in Vaccination, how can the people possibly  be expected to see it, except indeed they are bereft of reason? The  charge at the Union Hospital was two guineas. The mother of the boy  never recovered the shock occasioned by his fearful and sudden death,  after being compelled to have him SUCCESSFULLY VACCINATED! She  died the following year. C. L. H.  TAKEN FROM “Å LETTER ADDRESSED TO TIE JEWISH COMMUNITY,”  BY CHARLES T. PeArcås, M.D.  There isa law of vicarious mortality which Vaceination never did and  never will control. When one form of zymotic disease is prevalent,  others are absent, the total mortality being least when smallpox is  prevalent as an epidemic.  The following table shows that in 1838, the year in which smallpox  was fatal in sixteen thousand cases, the general mortality was seventeen  thousand less than in 1840, when scarlatina took the place of smallpox. 1838 1829 1840  smallpox... e: 16168 ... 91831... 10434 Measles... a s. 6514... 10987... 9326  Scarlatina ... s. 9,802 ... 10.325 ... 19816  Whooping-cough... 9,107 .... 8,105 ... 6,132  Total ... 837,691 ... 88,553 ..….… 45,708  Mortality from all causes in 1888... ..…. 8342529 ; ¢ „5 1840... 859,561  Showing that there is tho smallest genera! mortality when gma!l-pox  : ! mortality is high. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 40  Wuny Doctors BELIEVE IN VACCINATION.  JENNER received £30000 of the public money for promulgating  Vaccinatior, and it continues to yield a rich harvest of fees and “awards” to his disciples ; the public vaccinators alone having received in 84 years—1841 to 1874—out of the poor rates, ONE MILLION SIX HUNDRED AND FORTY-SEVEN THOUSAND POUNDS for the falsely-called Gratuitous Vaccination, and, in addition to tbeir fees, large sums as  “awards” paid out of moneys voted by Parliament for that purpose.  Ó  PUBLIC VACCINATION AND ITS ANNUAL COST IN ENGLAND AND WALES.  (Irom the Pall Mall Gazette, December 26th, 1875.)  N of Ersons  Cost of Vaccination.  Years. successfully | Fees paid Awards : Vaccinated. oút of paid by Tots!.  Poor Rate. | Parliament.  1867-1868 ... ..…. 513,042 £50,987 £2,753 £53,740  1858-1869 ... ... 524,143 64,37 3,886 63,264 1869-1870... 472,881 5,685 69,258  3870-187 L areae 693,104 7,340 80,515 1871-1872. se 669,320 6,187 119,128 1872 1873... : 501,189 9,201 109,758 1873-1814 =... ... 493,285 79,111 8,377 87,488  The total number of children successfully vaccinated in the seven  years was 3,866 964; the total cost was £588,151 ; the fees amounted to  £544,723; awards to meritorious vaccin4tors were £43 428.* The  average cost per case in 1867-68 was 2s. 1d ; in 1873-74 it was 33. 64d.  —that is, 1e. 53d., or 70 per cent. more. During the year 1870-71 the  successful cases were returned as 693 104, or nearly 50 per cent. more  than in the previous year. The numbers in 1871-72, though still very  high, fell something short of those in 1870-71, and during the two last  years a marked decline was recorded. During 1870-71, the successful  Vaccinations were 87:4 per ceut. on the number of births; in 1873-74  they were only 584 per cent, or 290 per cent. under the proportion  attained in 1870-71. For the three earlier years of the table above, the  average annual expenditure, which included both fees and awards, was  £63,754; for the three years ended in 1874 the mean was £135,458,  thus showing an increase of £41,704, or 65 per cent. a year. The  singular practice of paying a public vaccinatar beyond his remuneration  as contracted for—a special reward for doing his duty in a superior  manner—is largely developing itself. In 1873 and 1874 these awards  were fully thrice the sum won in 1868.”  The above statistics relate only to public Vaccination, it being im-  possible to estimate the enormous gains of the profession derived from  private Vaccination, a common charge for each operation being 5s., 10+.,  Or more.  * The award to the vaccinator is indeed a gift that “blindeth the wise.” Ther’  $s no doga or practice, however absurd, that could not be enforced where such  means are at the disposal of officials who carry out the law. The gold is the best  argument in the service—in fact, almost the only one left; and this new device of  paying for the work a second time in the shape of “awards” isa keen stroke of  policy, and is the surest way of perpetuating this traffic in disease and deat) This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 41  NPECIMENS OF the ÅWARDS MADE TO PUBLIC VACCINATORS DURING THE  YEAR 1875.  (Extracted from “Reports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council  and Local Government Board, New Series, No. VII., 1876.”)  Let it be well noted that the recipients of these “awards” are doctors,  and that the inspectors who make them are also members of the same  trades-union.  Number Bum  Name of Union, of Re- Awarded. Name of Tn.  cipients. & s. d. BPECtOr,  Ashton-under-Lyne n a 6 152 5 0 Dr. Beard. Ashton a. CA e 8 160 3 0 Mr. Power. Auckland .….…. 6 193 9 0 Do.  Bethnal Green a 2 182 5 0 Dr. Stevens.  Birmingham se S 1 275 14 0 Dr. Beaton, Blackburn .. sa 6 185 1 0 Dr. Beard,  Bolton aa a.. 6 210 11 0 Do. Bradford (Yorks) ..…. 3 107 0 0 Do. Bury ... a sa 4 109 6 0 Do.  Camberwell... 5 T1790 Dr. Stevens, Cardiff : 4 113 6 8 Dr. Airy. Chelsea a 2 106 2 0 Dr. Stevens. Chester-le -Street 2 123 11 0 Mr. Power.  Eccleshall Bierlow 1 116 19 0 Dr. Beard.  Halifax a 5 111 10 0 Do. Huddersfield ee in 12 225 8 0 Do. Islington ..…. a. Ei aa 4 171 16 0 Dr. Stevens. Lambeth : e : 5 236 16 0 0. Teeds... 5 307 15 0 Dr. Seaton. Liverpool 3 486 7 0 Do, Manchester ..…. 3 367 7 0 Do.  Marylebone... 1 149 18 0 Dr. Stevens. Merthyr Tydfil .… 7 348 15 0 Dr. Airy.  Newcastle-on-Tyne 5 200 11 0 Dr. Seaton. Bt. Pancras ... sa 1 258 14 0 Dr. Stevens. Prescot yr 4 101 14 0 Dr. Beard. Rotherham . 4 122 0 0 Do. Balford a. .. 2 235 3 0 Do, Bourth shields .. 2 137 12 0 Mr, Power.  Btoke-on-Trent a 5 233 3 4 Dr. Ballard. Bunderland ..…. .. ar G) 3 181 16 0 Mr. Power. Bwansea ... 2 211 14 0 Dr. Airy. Toxteth Park 1 105 19 0 Dr., Beard.  Walsall : a.. a 4 197 10 0 Dr. Bllard. West Derby ..…. aa xo 4 349 10 0 Dr. Beard.  The total amount thus awarded by doctors to doctors during the year  1875 was £15,696 193.. 8d.  Truly the “ blessings of Vaccination are, to these favoured members  of the Faculty, of a very tangible and substantial character,  It was stated before the Committee on Vaccination, 1871 (Report,  page 82), that a good smallpox p»nic undoubtedly makes one or two  millions of money flow into the pockets of the medical profession !  Published by the Society for Suppressing Compulsory Vaccination.  Hon. Sec., W. Youn, 8, Neeld Terrace, Harrow Road, London, W,  July, 1876. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 42  CrıNIonNs OF EaINENT MEN ON THE PRACTICE OF VACCINATION.  Dr. W. J. Collins, M.R.C.S. Eng., L.R.C.P. Edin., L.M., 20 years  Vaccine Physician in Edinburgh and London, writes “Ir I HAÐ THE  DESIRE TO DESCRIBE ONE-TIIIRD OF THE VICTIMS RUINED BY VACCINATION,  THE BLOOD WOULD STAND STILL IN YOUR VEINS. . . . I have not the  least confidence in Vaccination; it nauseates me, for it often transfers  filthy and dangerous diseases from one to another, without offering any  protection whatever.” T  Dr. Bartle, principal of the Freshficld College, near Liverpool, was  yesterday charged at Scuthport with 'efusing to vaccinate two of hig  children, aged eight and eighteen months respectively. ‘The case was  instituted by the Board of Guardians, who pressed for the utmost penalty,  as Dr. Bartle was guilty of non-compliance with the Vaccination Act.  The doctor pleaded guilty, and said he had conscientious serup!es against  Vaccination, as he believed it did more harm thin good. One of his  children was now suffering from impure lymph introduced into its  system. The magistrates fined him 203. and costs in each case.— Globe,  20:h January, 1876. i  (From Zhe Echo.)  First, I would ask whether we ought to have an increasing bill for  smallpox hospitals ever since 1867, when the Acts now in force were  passed, if Vaccination be indeed a “protection ” against epidemics of  that loathsome disease? Secondly, I would ask why we have  smallpox   at all amongst us, i! 953 per cent. of the population is vaccinated ? If it  be true that no cases of injury have occurred from the use of foul matter  (called lymph” because it does zot come from the lymphatics), why is  it not proposed to compensate any c2ses that may afterwards happen, in  order to show the sincerity of the Government ?  The Government circular professes to have some microscopic and  other tests for the purity of “lymph,” which it boasts of with the most  sublime nonchalance ; but everyone who knows anything of the subject  is well aware that no such test exists, and desires that the “bunkum ”  should meet with the exposure which it deserves.  The principal fact which is known to microscopists about the “lymph”  is that by far the majority of specimens zupplied for public use are found  transmit any transferable discrasia which may exist in the blood of the vyäccinifer. :  to contain white blood corpuscles, and consequently have the liability to  In the face of this, it is gravely stated that Mr. Sclater-Booth “has  information of securities for ensuring the perfect condition of the lymph  sent out by the National Vaccine Establishment.”  As the Government, through very shame, have never dared to publish  a return of infant mortality since 1867, and to compare it with any  previous period, I am happy to beable to inform you that such a paper is  ın preparation, and will show that in this country, as well as in Sweden  and Austria, we have official authority of the murderous effects of this  mistaken law, in an increased death-rate of that class which it professes  especially to “ protect.”—I am, yours obediently,  Aug. 15th, 1875. Evwop. HAvcHron, M.D. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 43  RzErorT or DR. LEANDER JosEPu KELLER, Head Physician of the  Imperial Austrian State Railway Company, on Statistics collected  from eighty Medical Men employed on the Railway Works, &c.  If we summarıse these statistics, we arrive at the following conclusions :—  1. Vaccinated and unvaccinated, re-vaccinated, and those who had  previously suffered from smallpox were alike attacked; the over-  whelming majority of the cases were vaccinated, doubtless because there  are, except in the first two years of life, many more vaccinated than  unvaccinated persons.  2. In the first two years of life many more unvaccinated than  vaccinated children were attacked by smallpox, because at that age  there are many ınore unvaccinated than vaccinated children.  3. The death-rate in the first two years of Jife is in all cases the  highest, the death-rate in very advanced age alone excepted ; still it was  lower among the unvaccinated than among the vaccinated children of this  period of life,  4. If we set aside these first two years of life, the death-rate is nearly  equal for vaccinated and unvaccinated, but still somewhat less favourable  to the vaccinated.  5. If the mortality of the total unvaccinated cases is higher in propor-  tion than that of the vaccinated, this is not to be ascribed to non-  Vaccination, but only tọ the great proportion of this large mortality  occurring in the first years of childhood.  6. The mortality in the different periods of life follows, both with  vaccinated and unvaccinated, the ordinary law of mortality of the human  race in these respective periods, and Vaccination has no power to alter  or affect this law of nature.  7. Having due regard to all these facts, it appears that Vaccination is  utterly worthless.  If we now only cursorily examine, with an unprejudiced eye, the  important results which I have here collected from the practice of no  less than eighty medical men employed on the railway line and works,  we must at once recognise what great weight attach: s to the statement of  age in all returns of smallpox casts, if we wish to draw any conclusion  from such returns as to the value of Vaccination, Itis inconceivable  that at the present day reports of smallpox cases should be relied on,  in which no mention is made of the age of the patients, and that from  : uch reports the friends of Vaccination would fain draw the conclusion  that Vaccination exercises some degree of protective power, because the  mortality of the unvaccinated is, as a rule grester than that of the  vaccinated. That this is the case we see confirmed in the above reports;  but often and often has it already been proved to pro-vaccinators that  other considerations besides that already dwelt on of the tender age of  the unvaccinated must here be taken into cons:deration, of which I will  only mention one, viz.: That only the healthy children are vaccinated  and the sickly ones, as a rule, are left unvaccinated.  Statistical tables of smallpox cases in which age (and the normal  death-rate) ¢%s left out of sight, are quile worthless as regards a decision  on the question what influence Vaccination may have exercised; even if  they have been quite correctly and conscientiously drawn up, which  unfortunately is very seldom th: case, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 44  Ma. T. J. Norron, in the Banbury Guardian of August 31st, 1876,  gives vent to the following pithy remarks :—  Ever since I was able to think and reflect, I considered the doctor’s  only business was to relieve and cure disease. But lo! I find here, in  the nineteenth century, in England, the land of the brave (and the free ?),  being the very centre of civilisation, doctors are actually selling disease,  and frantically affirming that a (unvaccinated) healthy babea is a danger  to the community and ought not to ba tolerated. They have also by  their wild statements and entreaty, persuaded Parliament to pass laws  to compel every one blessed with children, to submit them to their said  disease (cowpox ?)! Surely the force of folly can no further go. God  punishes filth, but man punishes anti-vaccination. Just a few reasons  why we are bound implicitly to believe the doctors when they teil us  that vaccination is a sure preventive of smallpox, and Jenner’s discovery  one of the greatest blessings ever conferred upon mankind, and I have  done.  1.—Because doctors are well known to be infallible.  2.—Because they always condemn what their predecessors practised.  3.— Because they nearly bled one-half of the last generation to death.  4,—Because they nearly poisoned the other half with mercury and other  minerals.  5.— Because they formerly lauded inoculation to the skies as they now  do vaccination.  6.—Because they afterwards persuaded Parliament to make inoculation  penal, and will probably by-and-by do the same with vaccination.  7.—Because Jenner is their great authority, and they entirely disregard  both his example and precepts in respect to the practice.  8.—Because no half-dozen of them can agree as to how long its  protective virtues continue, or how many cuts on the living arm are  needful to ensure its success, but while proclaiming vaccination as  the only safeguard against smallpox, they all, with one voice, insist  UPON RE-VACCINATION.  9.—Because they all explain so lucidly how putting poison into the  blood ensures subsequent health.  10.—Because so many of the most eminent doctors of all countries  always bave been and are entirely opposed to vaccination.  11.—Because the doctors who believe in vaccination are so learned  about smallpox and how to treat it, that they consider it one of the  most dreadful and loathsome of diseases, while poor ignorant (?)  herbalists and hydropaths treat and cure it with the greatest ease.  12.—Because all the FACTS OF THE CASE, viz., the perverse increase of  smallpox epidemies and their malignancy side by side with the spread  of compulsory vaccination, the obstinate ingratitude of the vaccinated  who die of smallpox in much larger numbers than the unvaccinated,  and the wilful sufferings and death of countless victims from the  direct effects of vaccination—ARE ENTIRELY AGAINST THEM—a Very  awkward thing—thivg indeed—ror THE FACTS !  18 —Because these very doctors are the parties interested, both from  pecuniary considerations, and esprit de corps in maintaining com-  Ppulsory vaccination; and it is well known that the testimony of  INTERESTED PARTIES is always to be held entirely above suspicion.  Modden I yi WINY O  OF BRISTOL  LIBRARY This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 10:39:06 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms