THINK FOR YOURSELVES. How strange it is that so many persons seem to allow doctors to think for them entirely ! Moses tells us, Lev. xvii . , ii ., _ “ The Life of the flesh is in the blood.” Yet, till of late, medical men were, everywhere, and even now ( although not in this country) still are, busy drawing off this life - giving blood , as if it were poison . It was only in 1840 that Parliament made inoculation with smallpox penal, in face of the published declaration of the College of Physicians, that " it was highly beneficial to mankind.” In 1796 Dr. Jenner proclaimed, that, by inserting into our bodies the putrid matter from a diseased horse's heel ( called “ grease ” ), after it had passed through the body of a cow, all, so vaccinated, were saved from the risk of infection by smallpox ! And the thoughtless millions, who had survived bleeding and inoculation , were so charmed by this mad notion , that Parliament voted Jenner £ 30,000 ! Since then most medical men, although now thoroughly ashamed and dumb on the subject of bleeding and inoculation extol vaccination, just as senselessly as they once extolled those older crimes against human health and life . In fact, nothing can be more true, ( though rudely thus stated by the late most eminent surgeon , Sir Astley Cooper, Bart. ), than that “ medical art is founded on conjecture, and improved by murder. ” We must bear, therefore, with those amongst us who refuse to cry out, “ Great is Jenner of Gloucestershire , ” and who point to some £300,000 of yearly vaccination fees, paid to his worshippers, as the origin of our compulsory vaccination law , which sentences every parent neglecting to have his child vaccinated , to severe and repeated fines or imprisonment. It is well-known that smallpox, like cholera, is a travelling epidemic ; here today - there to -morrow . Fortunately for Jenner, it happened to be on a visit here, about 1796, when his vaccination idea was proclaimed ; and, going awayas usual, soon after, he got the credit of having mastered it ; only, as might have been foreseen , it returned . At first, he had ' proclaimed, that “ it never attacked the vaccinated .” Soon afterwards, that “ it very seldom did so, or made the disease harmless . ” Now , “ bad matter , ” or “ stupid vaccinators ” have to bear the blame of its victims not being protected. After Jenner's time, we were told, “ it only protected for seven years." And now, with crowds diseased and dying from vaccination , and the vaccinated dying all around, from smallpox, we are coolly told , “ it is safest to be vaccinated yearly !” For it is an undeniable fact that great numbers, even of the most carefully vaccinated , die of smallpox. In Prussia, vaccination and revaccination are rigidly enforced . Yet in Berlin , in 1871, eight persons died of smallpox for everyone in London , although the disease was as common there as in Berlin . In 1871, according to returns laid before Parliament by the Poor - Law Board , and the medical department of the Privy Council, only about two - thirds of the people in England were vaccinated, yet according to the Lancet itself, these furnished four - fifths of the smallpox cases , the unvaccinated one-third furnishing only one - fifth ! In Müller's great orphanage, near Bristol, where every child is thoroughly vaccinated , and such cleanliness and care is the rule as is hardly to be found elsewhere, 293 children were attacked by smallpox in 1871 , and 18 of them died of the disease . In the London Smallpox Hospital, 91 per cent. of the cases in 1871 had been vaccinated ! But, say the pro - vaccinators, “ many more in proportion of the unvaccinated, than of the vaccinated, die of smallpox.” If true, Why ? Smallpox revels in the wretched, foul rooms of the poor, great numbers of whom are unvaccinated ; and the deaths really due to misery, want of cleanliness, and care, are cleverly reckoned up as due to non-vaccination !   Moreover, doctors, to bolster up the vaccination delusion , do all in their power to alarm people about smallpox, which , compared with several others, is a rare and far from dangerous disease . In 1863-5, 78,000 died in Britain , of scarlatina, and only 20,000 of smallpox ; while 54,906 died of diseases of the chest ; and in the Registrar General's published return of deaths in London , for the week ending December 18th, 1875, we find one death from smallpox, 68 from measles, 107 from scarlet fever, and 128 from croup and whooping cough ! And the average of deaths in London in this same fiftieth week of the year, for ten years , 1865-74 (including, be it observed, the terrible smallpox epidemic years, 1871-2) , shows 24 smallpox, 46 measles, 69 scarlet fever, and 68 croup and whooping cough . But people are now beginning to think for themselves, and see, that doctors who patronized bleeding and inoculation , and who, in face of all these facts, still laud vaccination as the greatest of blessings, are not wise ; and can no longer be allowed to think for them, or be permitted to wield compulsory laws to coerce persons who are wiser than themselves. God send our legislators light to see the frightful mistake they have committed, and are committing, in sacrificing the liberties of the nation , at the bidding of mere medical “ experts.” M.D., F.R.C.Ph. Edin . Feb. Ist , 1876. 