VACCINATION A lEGACY FROM GEORGE THE THIRD AND HIS COURT. sURPRISE is sometimes expressed that in the annals of great superstitions the earlier stages 'should/so` often be enveloped in obscurity: The explanation is, few can perceive or foresee that anew superstition is rising, and consequently few allusions are made to it by contemporary writers. it is therefore high time’ to place’ on record the’ origin of the vaccine dogma, which is now growing up’ and developing into a gigantic and daring myth before our eyes, and which has drawn both saint/and secularist into its meshes in this sensational and half educated nineteenth century. In the neighbouring state of France the Virgin occasionally appears to peasant girls in the mountains, and much’ belief follows’; but here the! peasant girl herself! appeared to Jenner, as a vision of beauty laden with tidings of great joy for all people. For the latest form of the/myth in its state of gradual-evolution describes her as a “handsome lass.” The simple facts, as recorded by Jenner's biographer, are these: While Jenner was as yet a stripling in his teens, and serving an apprenticeship at a place called Sodbury, a country girl came in for medical advice. The surgeon judged she was falling ill of smallpox. She replied “I cannot take that disease, for I have had cowpox.” “Young as Jenner was, and insufficiently acquainted with any -of the-laws'of physiology or pathology, he dwelt with deep interest on the communication which had been casually made known to him bya peasant, and partly foresawthe vast consequences which were involved in so: remarkable a phenomenon.” (Life of Jenner, vol. i. 122.) Such, we are told, was the original discovery of the now famous and world-wideè’ protective, the cowpox, which, as Jenner says in his petition to Parliament for pecuniary remuneration, “is attended with the singularly beneficial effect of rendering through life the’ person so inoculated perfectly secure from the infection of the smallpox.” Perfectly secure through life! Why our vaceinators themselves are circulating in this year of grace 1876, a statement which 3 originated in a Statistical Congress at St. Petersburg in 1872, that in the Franco-German war 23,000 French soldiers died of smallpox from neglect not of vaccination but of re-vaccination. As the number of the re-vaccinated Cerman army who died of smallpox was reported to be but 263, the statistic was paraded as a “puzzle” to anti-vaccinators. It has now transpired that the French army had undergone adult vaccination : consequently the “statistic” “has become a puzzle to vaccinators, Perfectly secure! In the epidemic which reached the families of the officials and workmen of the Austrian! State Railways in 1872, 3, and 4, and which carried off 817, vaccinated people, the Directors have just reported, through their head physician, that 92/re-vaccinated persons were attacked: by smallpox, and that 16 of them died ! | The celebrated incident -of the semi-miraculous “discovery” (it will soon be styled “revelation”) of the'cow: pox to Jenner, occurred about A. D. 1768, and was made known. to! the public by’ his biographer in 1838. We D learn that Jenner (in his 21st and 22nd years) became a pupil of the great Dr. John Hunter, who on this! subject of vaccination was what the Germans would call a tenitent.” Jenner failed. to convert him, and therefore the discovery was prudently kept in the background. till Hunter's’ death, which took place about 25 years’ afterwards. Meanwhile Jenner, in 1789, inocúlated his own son, then a year and a half old, with swine-pox | and between that year and 1792 he repeatedly inoculated him with smallpox. This son- was always delicate in health, had a defective understanding, and died about 21 years old of pulmonary consumption.’ So says Dr. Baron, Jenner's dearest friend and biographer. Hunter died in October, 1793. Six monthsafterwards Dr. Haygarth, one of the heads ofthe profession, whois admitted by Dr. Baronto be a competent judge, wrote to Dr. Worthington, a friend of Jenner :—“ Your, account of the cowpox is indeed very marvellous ; being so strange a history, and so contradictory to all past, observations on this/subject, very clear and full evidence willbe required to render it credible. You say tliat! this- wholeè} rare phenomenon is soonto be published ; but do not mention whether by:yourself or some other medical friend. In either ease, I trust that no reliance will be placed on vulgar stories” So that in 1794, between 20 and 30 years after the “ discovery,” a leading member of 4 the Tondon ‘profession had neither heard of discovery or discoverer ! Jenner published his‘ Inquiry into the Causes and Effects of the Variolæ Vaccinæ” in Jane, 1798, in which he alludes to the grease from the horse's heel, which he subsequently discovered to “exhibit all the! characters- of and afford all the security which canbe obtained from vaccine matter strictly’ so called.” (Life, i148.) / Jenner supplied i this “equine virus” to the National Vaccine Establishment iam in 1817, by which means it has been transmitted from arm to arm equally with the cowpox to admiring gene1ätions. Jenner had'already, in thè year previous tothe publication of his pamphlet, (1797) made an ineffectual attempt:to gain admission for his treatise into the- Transactions of! the Royal Society. ' He was'given to understand that‘ he ought not to risk his reputation by presenting to that learned body anything which appeared so much at variance with established knowledge, and' withal so incredible.” (ii. 168.) The scientific and’ medical world appear to have been almost unanimous in their disapproval of the cowpox.’ Dr. Baron himself admits that up to 1799 Jenner's professional brethren “rejected his statements without attempting to understand him.” How then’did Jenner succeed in placing’ the ladder of farme which he subsequently mounted, and on which he now stands in a somewhat precarious position? He and his friends set the medical profession and the Royal Society at defiance. Under the protection and with the assistance-of the Barl and Countess of Berkeley and other high members of the British peerage, Jenner persuaded aristocratic ladies to become amateur vaccinators among their tenantry anddependents. The practice, being highly sensational, furnished a new and pleasing’ employment tothe fashionable- world. “Lady Charlotte Wrottesley (writes Jenner) was-one of my y early pupils, and is an adept at vaccination, as'thousands of her poor neighbours in Staffordshire can’ testify.” (ii 362.) About this time Dr: Jenner “devoutly meditated” upon the subject. TheRev. Mr. Finch vaccinated 3000 persons before the end of 1802 (as yet the public vaccinator had not arisen) andone of Jenner's friends recommended that “the christening and vaccination be always performed on the same day.” A clergyman, at Cambridge, printed songs and ballads calculated to` impress the minds of the lower orders with the benefits of vaccination. “Lady Peyton became one of the 5 most energetic and successful of vaccinators.” The Duke of Clarence caused vaccination to be practised among his household and farm servants. In 1800 the Duke of York ordered the vaccination of a regiment. In 1801, the year in which George the Third suffered from one of his attacks of insanity, Jenner and the King concerted a plan to vaccinate the royal stag hounds. About twenty of them received the cowpox : the avowed object being to ‘prevent the dog-distemper.” In the same year we find Dr. Jenner communicating to a friend what he calls a “new wonder: he had discovered that “vaccine inoculation gives the distemper to dogs.” No wonder that a considerable number of children have come as patients into-the hospitals suffering both from vaccinia and variola (cowpox and smallpox.) lIn 1802 the King commanded the prime minister (Mr. Addington, afterwards Lord Sidmouth) to convey to Parliament his majesty’s desire that a benefaction should be awarded to Dr. Jenner out of the public purse. To the subservient Parliament of that day an intimation of the royal wish was decisive. Lord Rous, in answer to a- question on the amount of proof required, writes :—-“ There will be no occasion for any minute inquiries: the minister will grant a reward, or he will not do it; and it will be decided whether he will do it long before it is brought before Parliament.” How exhaustive must have been the parliamentary enquiry of that date ! In compliance with usage, a “committee” was appointed. The princes of the. blood. attended to support Jenner. Lord Rous gave evidence that ‘his own. child was vaccinated the year before, and he was perfectly satisfied that it was protected from smallpox.” This was in 1802. Vaccination had only been practised six years. Easily did the superstition pass through its early stages. How could these noble lords foresee that the protection would continue through life? But these are “minute inquiries.” Po proceed with our subject:—The medical profession, alarmed at the attitude of the court and the aristocracy, found it expedient to withdraw their opposition. In the face of the. courtly welcome to an infallible protection for lite they had become powerless. The torrent of superstition, in its youthful vigour, who shall dare to stem ! It was on the 17th March, 1802, that the King sent a message to the Commons recommending the. grant, and it A was on the 29th of the same month that the Medical Society 6 of London, to Jenner's high gratification, gave their long- delayed adhesion to the protection obtained from the cow. And it was upon the strength of an inquiry thus conducted, and a national benefaction thus awarded, that European courts and princes blindly accepted the vaccine creed. This uncertain and unscientific form of protection is as opposed to (a physiology as it is to experience. No note of praise from the scientific world heralded its birth: lords and ladies believed, admired, and submitted : but the great Humboldt, m as may be seen from one of his letters, alludes to the practice in terms indicative of extreme contempt. Such isa succinct account, from the most authentic sources, of the rise of our latest superstition. Vaccination is supported By the unceasing propagation of amazing statements of the benefits conferred by it upon the human frame; by omitting to explain that in medieval Europe it was customary to class scarlatina and other epidemics under the common term smallpox : by omitting to allow the practice of inoculation its due weight in the spread of the disease; by affrighting the population with the wildest medieval theories of contagion ; by making no allowance whatever for improved sanitary knowledge and practice ; by complete and suggestive silence on the deaths which follow vaccination; and by harrowing tales of the prophetic dangers which await unbelievers. Surely some proof ought to be given of the heavy percentages recorded against non-vaccinators by angry opponents. In the Report of the Austrian Railways Direction above-mentioned, the percentage of deaths in vaccinated and unvaccinated was nearly equal for patients above two years old, being 13 and a fraction in each case: whilst below that age the percentage of the vaccinated was the greatest. With most people the attempt to solve the mystery of vaccination statistics is an attempt to solve the insoluble. Statistics offered by the propounders of a marvellous and strange dogma ought, as Dr. Haygarth properly suggests, to be subjected to an impartial enquiry, if impartiality be possible on this most vexed of questions. The weakest argument of the apostles of Jenner is their bold assumption that vaccination saves millions of lives. If so, the average general mortality must be lessened accordingly, for saving of life means lengthened duration of life. if vaccination has not lengthened the duration of life, 7 how can it be shown to have saved lives from premature extinction? The authority for the oft repeated allegation is Dr. Baron, whose work is praised by Sir Henry Holland as the best repertory of vaccine lore, Dr, Baron says that our general mortality in 1801 (at the commencement of vaccination) averaged one in 47, which is 22 in the thousand; and this he claims to have been reduced at the time he wrote, and mainly by vaccination, to one in 60, which is 17 in the thousand. His work was published just before the General Registration returns came into existence. They date from 1838, and they show the Doctors calculation of a reduced mortality to be entirely erroneous, The mortality since registration averages 22 in the thousand, almost exactly the ratio given by Dr. Baron for 1801. Yet vaccinators continue to harp upon the old string, and the salvation of millions is still paraded as if registration were non-existent! Compulsion commenced in 1854, and has been actively and cheerfully enforced, and again the annual registration returns fail to show the promised improvement, although we have expended many millions on sanitary amelioration. The probable explanation is that the beneficial effect of the abatement of nuisances and the change in the water supply of our large towns has been counterbalanced by the deaths after vaccination, the number of which, however large, cannot be accurately ascertained till vaccination is admitted by the profession into the list of recognized causes of death. Väccina is now in great and imminent danger. The rising wave of modern inquiry, from which no superstition is in these days wholly secure, has brought her to a position of unstable equilibrium. She offers concessions, She proposes to mitigate among her adherents the disease, she originally undertook to prevent: she no longer undertakes to make her admirers perfectly secure through life, and she is willing to reduce her protection to a period not exceeding seven years. Mr. Gladstone and his brother statesmen are touchingly implored to accept vaccination without proof and to enforce it without being convinced, on the ground that life is too short for inquiry, and that the question has already been prejudged and settled. Have they not (it is illogically urged) accepted gravitation without enquiry? Then why not vaccination ? On this subject the luxury of independent thought is to be denied even to Mr, Gladstone. Why does he not submissively admit that this providential disease in the cow “ almost quite saves us or some of us for an uncertain period” from the smallpox, which after twenty years of compulsory vaccination is now more dreaded than ever, and most dreaded by those most “protected.” But with what justice can vaccination be said to save the human family from a disease which is primarily caused by the natural operation of sewer and cesspool gases in those who in the earlier periods of life become exposed to their deleterious action? Common sense, in harmony with the highest science, dictates that security from smallpox, scarlatina, cholera and the whole range of zymotic diseases, is to be found, not in ceremonial, but in cleanliness : not in cowpox, but in purity of air, of water, and of life. Jenner promised the credulous monarch and his court and his faithful Commons, not only that they should be perfectly secure from death by smallpox, but that they should be perfectly secure from attack. There were to be no cases among the protected people. They were to be a peculiar people. It was on this ground, and on this alone, that the King and the Commons granted the £30,000. They were to be made perfectly secure for life. Yet within the last few years, and since 1870, some 7,000 people have been attacked in Birmingham alone. Nine-tenths of them are said to have been vaccinated; and about 1 in 8 of the vaccinated cases ended in death. : Perfectly secure through life! Thou False Prophet! Were well if the human race were perfectly secure from thee ! LATELY PUBLISHED, BY THE SAME AUTHOR, OFFICIAL DEFENCE OF VACCINATION By E. C. SEATON, M.D. EXAMINED AND REFUTED. PRICE ONE PENNY. G. HAssELr, Printer by Gas Power, King Street, Leicester. 