THE NEWCASTLE GUARDIANS AND VACCINATION. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE ARGUMENTS AGAINST THE COMPULSORY VACCINATION ACT This Report is substantially the same as the Speech delivered; some of the quotations, then only referred to, arc now given at length, authorities more explicitly stated, and one or two sentences added. Special Report of the Arguments against the Compulsory Vaccination Acts, at the debate at the Board of Guardians, Newcastle-on-Tyne, March 1st., 1878. At the usual weekly meeting of the Newcastle-upon-Tyne Board of Guardians, on March 1st, 1878, Mr. Edmund Procter moved " That this Board petition Parliament in favour of the total repeal of the Compulsory Vaccination Laws." After some introductory remarks Mr. Procter said he would anticipate a common objection that this was a purely medical question and that laymen like himself should abide by the decision of the faculty. He pointed out that the history of the profession was not such as to justify us in bowing to its decisions without enquiry, but rather urged upon us the necessity of examining the evidence ourselves: Periodical bloodletting was not so long ago the general practice of the doctors though now almost universally condemned in this, and most civilized countries. In the early part of this century cupping, blistering, setons, and cauterisations were recommended and applied by Sir Benjamin Brodie and the leading practitioners of his time to a degree that is almost incredible, and were the cause of an amount of human torture that we cannot contemplate without a shudder. Yet Brodie himself lived to see the needlessness and cruelty of such savage barbarism, and entirely changed his practice. Direct inoculation of Smallpox as a supposed preventive of the disease was very extensively adopted both in England, and on the continent, and in 1751 the London Royal College of Physicians officially declared this practice to be highly beneficial to mankind." But the introduction of Jenner's substitute led the profession generally to abandon the practice, while some eminent among them denounced it as murderous, and in 1840 inoculation was made penal. Bearing these facts in mind we were then justified in using our common sense in looking at medical dogmas, and should not be too easily led by the nose, for medical art, 8ir Astley Cooper declared "is founded on conjecture and improved by murder," and the great Adam Smith has said " the great success of quacks in England has been altogether owing to the real quackerv of the regular physicians." Let us then examine some of the facts of the case. Scotland has often been held up by the advocates of vaccination as one of the best protected countries in Europe. The third annual report of the Registrar- General of Scotland says, " Never since civil registration began in Scotland, has Smallpox been so rare as during the past three years, when the vaccination act has been in full operation." Dr. Wood of Edinburgh stated in his evidence before the Vaccination Committee that there were very few un-vaccinated persons in Scotland. Dr. Playfair said in the House of Commons, on the Gth of Jul) r , 1870 : - " There could not be the slightest doubt that compulsory laws, when properly applied, as in Scotland and Ireland, were perfectly equal to stamp out Smallpox in a country." Tet almost immediately after this, in 1871, a fearful epidemic raged in Scotland, during which according to the Lancet, the deaths from Smallpox were equivalent to an annual mortality of 36 per 1,000. " Leith, Dundee, Edinburgh, Perth and Aberdeen,"' says the Lancet of February 17, 1872, "are suffering most severely from the epidemic." Ireland has also been the boast of vaccinators, and Sir Dominic Corrigan, then M. P. for Dublin, boasted in the House of Commons, that vaccination had stamped out Smallpox in Ireland. Since then there have been frightful epidemics in Dublin, Belfast and Cork. In Dublin the mortality from Smallpox during 1871-2 was three times as great as the mortality of London in the worst epidemic of this century ; in Cork the mortality during the quarter ending June, 1872, was ten times greater than London.(i) Since then the Jennerites have had nothing to say about Ireland. Regarding France, the returns of the French Government, presented through the Minister of Commerce and Agriculture, and prepared by the Imperial Academy of Medicine, show incontestably that Smallpox prevailed most in the best vaccinated Departments, " and for every one death in the ten Departments least vaccinated, there were 49 in those most vaccinated." I will hand a translation of this report to any one wishing to see it. From the report of Consul Hotham, the British Consul at Calais, we find in the Department-du-Nord, that cases of Smallpox were nearly six times more numerous among children who were vaccinated than among such as had not been vaccinated. ( 2 ) From Prussia the evidence is even more remarkable. Compulsory vaccination has been carried out there with a rigour not only unknown, but happily impossible in this country. Not only so, but re-vaccination is very extensively practised ; it is almost universal in the army, and has long been largely performed upon the general public. Yet in Berlin there raged seven years ago a Smallpox epidemic with a percentage of deaths almost incredibly worse than the London epidemic of 1871 ! Dr. Leander Josef Keller, chief Physician to the Austrian Imperial Railway, thus sums up that in well- vaccinated Prussia there died in the epidemic of 1871-2, 124,000 persons, and many thousands died having upwards of ten well- vaccinated scars." To turn for one moment to (1) The London mortality from Smallpox during this epidemic was 2 4 ; Dublin reached 7-6 ; Cork 23-2. (2) Reports from Her Majesty's Consuls. special cases, Dr. Oidtman, Staff Surgeon to the Prussian Army during the Franco-German War, in his official report, relates a case where in a family of six persons, the only members who escaped Smallpox were two un-vaccinated children, the vaccinated members being attacked severely. Dr. Oidtman also points out that in the town of Diiren, in 1868-69-70. only vaccinated persons were attacked by Smallpox. In Bavaria in 1871, of 30,742 persons who suffered from Smallpox, 29,429 were vaccinated. (") In the Imperial Hospital of Wieden 1858-64, there were only 20 unvaccinated among 1,330 Smallpox patients. (a) Truly a wonderful array of proof that vaccination protects from Smallpox. ! Regarding our own country the Lancet of January 21, 1871, admitted that " cases of Smallpox after vaccination have been increasing, and now amount to four-fifths of the cases." (i) In the case of Birmingham it will be sufficient to quote the following from the Pull Mall Gazette of April 10, 1874, : - "Smallpox in Birmingham: Failure of Vaccination. There appears to b9 a severe outbreak of Smallpox in Birmingham, and to judge from the official returns of Dr. Hill, Medical Officer of Health for the borough, showing the number of new cases for the week ending the 1th inst., the disease lacks its wonted respect for vaccination." (s) An affecting instance of the titter failure of vaccination to prevent Smallpox occurred in the Bristol Orphan Homes. In the thirty-third report, by George Muller, we read as follows : - " It has pleased the Lord to lay upon us during the past year, the heavy trial of allowing the Smallpox to enter among the orphans, though every child under our care has been vaccinated and again : - "In the early part of January, 1872, it pleased the Lord to allow the Smallpox to enter the New Orphan House, No. 5 .... In No. 1 there have been up to July 26th, 1872, seven cases and one death ; in No. 2 ninety cases and three deaths ; in No. 3 ninety-five cases and eight deaths ; in No. 1 one case and one death ; and in No. 5 one hundred cases and five deaths." In all 293 cases and 18 deaths. There has been an outbreak of Smallpox at Harwich during the last winter, and out of 40 cases in the hospital there, the matron admits nearly tire whole have been vaccinated. Only last November the Times reported a severe outbreak of Smallpox in Bromley, Bow and Poplar, described as the three best vaccinated parishes in London. But those scattered instances weigh nothing as compared with the results derived from the Registrar-General's returns. Vaccination was made compulsory in 1853 ; another Act was passed in 1867 ; and the law was rendered more stringent in 1871. (3) These are on the authority of Dr. Chemnitz, of Saxony, and are taken from a petition presented to the German Diet. (4) Mr. Geo. S. Gibbs, F.S.S., of Darlington, has found from returns made to Parliament by the Poor Law Board, that at that time not more than 65 - 5 per cent, of the English people were vaccinated ; that is not quite two-thirds. Now then can we get rid of the inference that as these two-thirds furnish four-fifths of the smallpox cases, while the un-vaccinated one-third furnish but one-fifth of such cases, the vaccinated are twice as susceptible of smallpox as the un-vaccinated} (5) The number of cases reported were 114, of which 100 were vaccinated, and of 12 deaths at the hospital 11 were vaccinated. Since the passage of the original Act we have had three epidemics, with the following results, - 1st. - 1857-59, there were 12,244 deaths, 2nd. - 1863-G5, there were 20,059 deaths. 3rd. - 1870-72, there were 44,840 deaths. What a comment upon the confident predictions of the " immortal Jenner !" Allowing for increase of population at 7 per cent, from the first to the second epidemic there is an increase of Smallpox in the same period of 44 per cent., and allowing for an increase of population between the second and third epidemics of 10 per cent, there is shown an increase of Smallpox of 120 per cent. In this remarkable fashion “has vaccination stamped out Smallpox." This is perhaps enough on the statistical side of the question. No aspect of this painful question is more shocking and alarming than the fact that vaccination is, to an incalculable extent, the source and propagator of syphilis, ulcers, erysipelas, and other diseases. In an essay by the celebrated Dr. Bayard,(°) the writer exclaims - ''Adieu to vaccination ; we will have no more of it : syphilis has revealed the criminal." One of the most celebrated medical men in Europe - -Ricord, -whom Earl Percy quoted as one of the highest authorities in his speech in the House of Commons last July - declared in a lecture at the Hotel Dieu, in Paris, in 1862:- "If the transmission of disease with vaccine lymph is clearly demonstrated vaccination must be altogether discontinued." A year later at the Academy of Medicine lie said: - " At first I repulsed the idea that syphilis could be transmitted by vaccination. The recurrence of facts appearing more and more confirmatory, I accepted the possibility, but with reserve, and even with repugnance ; but to-day I hesitate no more to proclaim their reality." Dr. Hutchinson, M.R.C.S., Surgeon to the London Ophthalmic, and Skin Diseases Hospitals, in his evidence before the parliamentary committee of 1871, gave his experience of cases in which syphilis had been transmitted in this way, in one of which an apparently healthy child had thus been the means of transmitting this loathsome disease to eleven grown up persons. he acknowledged before the committee that many professional men had said to him in reference to these cases, "I should not have believed it :" some adding, "unless you said it." At a discussion at the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, in the spring of 1872. Dr. Hutchinson said " He did not entertain a shadow of doubt upon the subject. In the present case the evidence was cumulative." In the course of the same discussion another doctor ¦ - Mr. De Meric - quoted one instance in Brittany, in which he said it was " beyond doubt " that thirty or forty children (!) had contracted syphilis in consequence of being vaccinated from a syphilitic child. I find, the Lancet of April 2, 1877, reports a lecture by Jas. R. Lane, E.R.C.S., delivered at the Harveian Society. Mr. Lane says: - "The reality of the communication of syphilis by impure vaccine lymph has been only too clearly proved." (6) Essay on Vaccination alter 85 years' experience. I find a letter in the Students' Journal and Hospital Gazette of October 13th, 1877, from G,A. Abrath, M.D.,of Sunderland, in which he states " With respect to the transmission of vaccino-syphilis by post-mortem examination, it is quite correct. Upon the third day after the matter was taken from the child's arm the syphilitic disease made its appearance. The child was seen by Dr. Potts, ex- May or of Sunderland, who pronounced it vaccino-syphilis, and, who stated that 40 years ago, six cases happened in his practice. The child in question was under my treatment, and at that time I had eleven other children under treatment suffering from vaccino-syphilis." We not un -frequently hear the advocates of Jennerism insinuate the absurd and wicked falsehood that an uu-vaccinated child is a danger to the community. In Chamber's Encyclopedia I find a case showing what a frightful pest even one vaccinated baby may become. " In 1861 in a thinly peopled district of Piedmont, 46 children were vaccinated directly or indirectly, from a single child which had contracted syphilis from its nurse. All the 46 children, took the disease and gave it to their mothers, nurses, and children who played with them, and the mothers gave it to their husbands." And our magistrates are astonished that anybody 1 in this enlightened age,' should object to vaccination ; and they inflict fines and imprisonment on those who do not wish to subject their children to the risk of being inoculated with the foulest diseases ! State Councillor Dr. Walz, of Frankfort on the Oder, stated last year, " That injuries from vaccination in the towns of Forst and Cottbus resulted in the rapid decease of the victims, which led to an official enquiry in which the whole was admitted. The cases hero have several of them proved fatal. In the village of Tzschgtzschnow, out of 120 vaccinated for the first time, 90 became more or less seriously ill, and 8 of them died within six weeks." Dr. Leander Josef Keller, chief Physician to the Austrian State Pailway, in an elaborate statistical argument, sums up w r ith the declaration that generally more vaccinated than un-vaccinated persons are attacked by Smallpox. "( 7 ) Herr G. F. Kolb, of Munich, an author and statistician of the highest reputation, has just published a pamphlet (*) " On <he Vaccination Question," wherein after a Careful review of official statistics, he announces the conclusion that vaccination is devoid of all satisfactory scientific or statistical basis, and " that compulsory vaccination ought to be abolished, at least until the State can .afford a full guarantee against the co-inoculation (or transmission by vaccination ) of other and especially loathsome diseases." Dr. Garth Wilkinson, F.R.C.S., F.R.G.8., an accomplished London practitioner, has suggested the extreme probability of vaccination being a cause of the very common early decay of teeth. The surmise gains countenance when we remember the time when the germs of the second or permanent teeth are appearing. This view has just received a remarkable confirmation in a work published by Mr. Albert Carter, Surgeon Dentist. Mr. Carter has visited India, China, Australia, Ceylon, Jiurmah, and other countries, examining the tecih of all classes, and adding the result (7) Published in the Allgemeine Weintr Mtdizinuche Zeitung . (S) Zur Impffraga, S/c. Von G. F. Kolb. Leipzig : Arthur Felix. of his literary and scientific researches. One extract regarding the Malacca Straits must suffice. - "Now these Chinamen having sound teeth marry Malay women having sound teeth, and their children have sound teeth ; but in Singapore and Penang the well- to-do part of them follow the example of their European neighbours and have their children vaccinated, and those children grow up to be men and women with teeth as decayed as any people in the world.'' ( 9 ) With such facts as these before us well may we bear in mind that to do evil that good may come is a falsehood as old as the human race. Evidence on this feature of the subject is almost inexhaustible but I fear to weary the Board. I may conclude by referring to a list of 88 cases, just issued by the English Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League, of injury, disease, and death, the almost indisputable consequences of practising this absurd and beastly rite : also a list of 449 cases of death from vaccination, nearly all recorded by medical men, from a document about to be presented to the German Diet. A letter appears in the Newcastle Daily Chronicle of this day, March 1st, 1878, signed by Dr. Wilson ( 10 ) and Dr. Wyld advocating vaccination direct from the calf. The present system of vaccination is practically given up, and the writers admit that " the anti-vaccinationists are becoming more and more active," and that they " have a legitimate cause." It is refreshing to find medical men with such an amount of candour. But their new nostrum is founded upon mere assertions. Jenner said if vaccination were general, Smallpox would disappear from the world; Drs. Wilson and Wyld say the same words of their pet practice. It is impossible they can be ignorant, but they simulate ignorance of the fact, that the great god of the Jennerites, Dr. Seaton, Medical Officer to the Privy Council and Local Government Board, after visiting Paris, Brussels, Rotterdam, and Amsterdam in 1869, with the view of investigating vaccination direct from the calf, reported unfavourably of the practice as being impracticable and uncertain. Dr. George Gregory, physician to the Smallpox Hospital, declared that " true vaccine lymph, as taken from the cow, is frequently very acrid, producing glandular swellings and local inflammation." Dr. Shorthouse, M.ll.C.S. England, LL.D., a well-known contributor to medical and other journals, has also shown, in a sarcastic letter to the Croydon Chronicle , how dangerous is the practice of vaccination direct from the calf, and what folly its adoption would be. Drs. Wilson and Wyld say "some ignorantly suppose that calf lymph is produced by inoculating heifers with Smallpox." Now a much higher authority, the late Dr. Sir Corjy Burrows, of Brighton, declared on the bench of magistrates so recently as February, 1876, that he himself had inoculated seventeen cows with Smallpox, and from these cows had sup(9) Vaccination a Cause of the prevalent decay of the Teeth; and a Scourge to Beauty , Digestion, and Soundness . An experience from many lands. By Albert Carter. (10) This very Dr. Wilson, medical officer of the Alton Union, declared in the Lancet of December 29, 1877, that " it is useless to deny that vaccination by human lymph involves danger of scrofulous and erysipelas inoculation. The difficulty of securing with absolute certitude subjects for furnishing vaccine lymph free from constitutional taint is simply insuperable, as few, rather I should say no, scientific physiologist, no thoughtful medical practitioner of widespread experience contests." On the showing of Dr. Wilson, therefore, the present system stands condemned. plied the lymph that was disseminated by the Jennerian Institute, and therefore used at the London Smallpox Hospitals. (a) The Jennerites often try to hoodwink the public into the belief that those who are opposed to the abominable superstition which we are discussing, are a mere clique of quacks or ignoramuses. A more gratuitous falsehood has been seldom uttered. I have already quoted from the writings and the statistics of physicians and practitioners of European fame. Dr. Hunter the great anatomist, and a contemporary of Jenner, energetically declared that vaccination was pernicious, unscientific, and absurd. Dr. Rowley, of Oxford, a medical writer of considerable eminence in his day, hesitated not to call Jenner a charlatan. Dr. Copland, author of the well-known Dictionary of Medicine , attacked the principle and the practice with unrelenting criticism. W. J. Collins, M.R.C.S., England, L.R.C.P., Edinburgh, after an experience of twenty years as vaccine physician in Edinburgh and London, at last lifted up his voice against the revolting superstition, and has left on record these thrilling words: "If I had the desire to describe one-third of the victims > itined by Vaccination, the blood would stand still in your veins I have not the least confidence in Vaccination ; it nauseates me, for it often transfers filthy and dangerous diseases from one to another, without offering any protection whatever." Dr. Forbes Laurie, L.R.C.S., a venerable homoeopathic practitioner, whose works are widely known, says: - " paralysis, blindness, consumption, and death, and no end of filthy skin diseases, stare us in the face as the direct result of this process." Dr. Josef Hermann, head physician at the Imperial Hospital, Vienna, from 1858 to 1864, a few years ago declared - *• My experience of smallpox during those six years of bedside attendance has given me the right, or rather has imposed on me the duty, of taking part in the bold and spirited onslaught on Vaccination, which is now being carried on in Switzerland, Germany. England, and other countries I am convinced that Vaccination is the greatest mistake and delusion in the science of medicine ; a fanciful illusion in the mind of the discoverer ; a phenomenal apparition devoid of scientific foundation, and wanting in all the conditions of scientific possibility." (is) Dr. S to well, for twenty-five years a vaccine physician, says: - "The nearly general declaration of my patients enables me to proclaim that Vaccination is not only an illusion, but a curse for humanity. More than ridiculous - it is irrational to say that any corrupt matter taken from boils and blisters of an organic creature could affect the human body otherwise than to injure it. . . .1, myself, know the names of a hundred physicians who think like me." Dr. Gregory, who was fifty years Director of the Smallpox House in London, and Dr. Epps, twenty-five years Director of the Jenner Institute, before their deaths were both converted from the error of their ways, and expressed themselves in language equally determined and uncompromising. The terrible increase of erysipelas since the introduction of vaccination is deserving of most earnest attention. Dr. Pearce, in his vaccination (11) Almost every sentence of the letter of Drs. Wilson and Wyld invites criticism, and confutes the practice of vaccination. It was admirably replied to in a letter by Mr. Alex. Wheeler, of Darlington, which appeared in the Newcastle Dailu Chronicle of March 2nd. (12) Translated from the Naturant, a scientific journal of Vienna, evidence, 1871, says, - " Indeed .Tenner emphatically stated that no vaccination was protective which did not produce- erysipelas ; and have we not proof that thousands of those who die of erysipelas consist of infants' under twelve months old - the year in which vaccination is performed." Dr. Henry A. Martin, whom Drs. Wyld and Wilson quote as a high authority, says in a recent work (ts) Erysipelas is a disease of which the occasional occurrence is inseparable from vaccination with humanized virus. It is apt to complicate the most perfect development of the vesicles and areola resulting from the use of that virus ; in fact I have very seldom known it to follow any other than a ' fine arm.' No care in the selection of virus, no study of seasons or of the condition of patients affords any means of escape whatever. During the sixteen years in which I supplied humanized virus the presence of this pest in my own practice and in that of my correspondents was the one great and serious drawback, the one formidable source of anxiety and blame." And leaving the medical profession we may remember that Sir Robert Peel protested against Compulsory Vaccination, in the British House of Commons, as essentially opposed to the mental habits of the British people, and to the freedom of opinion in which they rightly gloried. The celebrated William Cobbett, who lived through the period when inoculation was lauded by the profession, and watched the spread of the new nostrum of Jenner, in his Advice to Young Men, protests against the absurd and filthy practice with the slashing and sarcastic vigour for which he Is so celebrated. And in our day Professor F. W. Newman has repeatedly by voice and tongue protested against the practice as a medical dogma, and declaimed against the compulsory law as an outrage upon the British constitution, and an incendiary of revolution, (n) Indirectly the promulgation of the vaccination theory loads to disastrous consequences, especially time ng the poor. It leads them to think that no matter how careless their mode of living, how ill-cooked their food, how drunken their habits, how bad the air they breathe, how fill by the places in which they live, if they only adopt this piece of quackery they are safe. One word more and J have done. It is a common assertion of the advocates of vaccination that the absence of persons pitted with the Smallpox so commonly observed when they were young, is a proof how much less malignant the disease is at the present day. This is a conclusion utterly baseless. Whatever blunders the medical profession has made there can he no doubt that in the treatment of the disease itself there has been an immense advance upon the system of former years, and it is now a discredit to any doctor that his patient should recover and still hear any serious marks of the ordeal. Were it otherwise, the epidemic of 1S71 being far the worst of this century, we must at the. present day see a far larger number of persons marked by Smallpox than at any time during the lifetime of persons now living. (13) A fixe Words on Unfortunate results' of Vaccination, by Dr. Henry A . Martin, Brevet Lieut. -Col. and late Staff Surgeon, United States Army. (14) Political side of the Vaccination System, an essay, and many articles and speeches. Smallpox is favoured by foul air, foul food, foul houses, and foul water. \\ r ere not the fact before us, could imagination picture any people so base in intellect as to believe that a charm performed on an infant, can restrain the evil influences of seven years uncleanness in person, in habits, and in surroundings ? It is preposterous. And I would say, looting at it politically, that the politician who can stand by and see our British freedom, which " has slowly broadened down," uprooted, the sanctity of the cradle violated, the lights of parentage crushed out, and strikes not one blow for freedom, is unworthy of his forefathers. England was the first country to establish and legalise this monstrous medical despotism - suffering humanity looks to England to be foremost in the struggle which shall lever the foul superstition with the dust. The motion to petition Parliament was seconded by Mr. Thomas Gregson in a philosophical and closely reasoned speech in which he ridiculed the idea of matter taken from a diseased limb being " pure lymph," and pointed out that as doctors now had generally given up the dogma of J miner that vaccination protected for life, and advocated the necessity of its repetition, those who had not been re-vaccinated must, on this theory, he equally with the unvaccinated infant a danger to the community, and the law should deal with them also ; but no Government dare propose such a monstrous invasion of personal liberty. Mr. Adam Carse said he did not agree with all that had been said against vaccination and was disposed to favour the practice, though he did not speak of this very confidently ; but he protested against the compulsory law as un-English and tyrannical, and on this ground he should support the motion. Mr. Ralph Cook spoke against the motion, giving some statistics to favour his view, some of them deserving of attention but others not of an official character. Mr. Procter in reply observed that many thousands of children were too weak and sickly to be vaccinated, and in this condition they naturally fell an easy prey to Smallpox or any other epidemic that was going ; nearly a thousand children are shewn every- year by the Medical Officers' returns to be insusceptible after three operations, and, if attacked, arc recorded as un-vaccinated. All this very seriously swelled the list of unvaccinated deaths, but only those impervious to reason and common sense could be blinded by such misleading returns. The vote was then taken when the motion was carried by 13 against 7. the GULLIBLE CHILDREN OF THE 'WORLD. Dr* A. IT. Caion, of Paris, OhcAalier of the Legion of Honour, and member of many learned societies, in a letter to Dr. Chaplin, of Portman Square, London which the latter published in the Co-operator, in 1870, says " For my own part, it is long since I have positively refused to vaccinate ut any price ; while the successful results of the Smallpox cases I have treated are beyond appeal In a word, I maintain that Vaccination is a bauble, gilded over, indeed, by Act of Parliament, but which is a bauble still, with which doctors rock - too often to a fatal sleep - the gullible children of the world." Ur. Caron says further : - " The mortality from Smallpox seems to increase with the number of vaccinations and revaccinations performed every day in Paris." VACCINATION DIRECT FROM THE CALF. Speaking of vaccination direct from animals, Dr. Seaton, Medical Inspector of the Privy Council, in his Handbook of Vaccination, (page 30(i,) says : " the difficulties in applying such a plan to the vaccination of the general population are, I apprehend, quite insuperable." He goes on to say, "there is no one in England whose opinion on this subject will be received with so much respect as Mr. Ceely's, because there is no one who has nearly the knowledge that he possesses of the disease in the cow and of its transplantation to the human species. He looks upon this proceeding as not only open to the objections of impracticability, as applied to the general population, and of unsuccess : but he says also that, so far from being likely to produce fewer ailments and cutaneous eruptions in the predisposed, he knows from his experience that it would, as being more irritating, produce more." And yet Drs. Wyld and Wilson advocate vaccination direct from the calf ! PROFESSIONAL MORALITY. The following is an extract from an article on " Certificates of Death," by Mr. Henry May, Health officer to the Aston Union, Birmingham : - " In certificates given by us voluntarily, and to which the public have access, it is scarcely to be expected that a medical man will give opinions which may tell against or reflect upon himself in any way, or which are likely to cause annoyance or injury to the survivors. In such cases he will most likely toll the truth, but not the whole truth, and assign some prominent symptom of the disease as the cause of death. As instances of cases which may tell against the medical man himself, I will mention erysipelas from vaccination, and puerperal fever. A death from the first cause occurred not long ago in my practice, and although I had not vaccinated the child, yet in my desire to preserve vaccination from reproach I omitted all mention of it in my report " ! ! 