Speech of Mr. P. A. Tayor, M.P., oz the Second   Reading of the Vaccination Act ( Ireland)  Amendment Bill, April 7th, 1879.  (From “ Midland Free Press,” April 12, 1879.)  NOT REPORTED IN THE LONDON DAILY PAPERS.  ALSO  MINUTES OXF TH EYIDENCK:  OF :  A WITNESS,  TAKEN BEFORE THE SELECT COMMITTEE  ON THE  VACCINATION ACT (1867),  ORDERED BY THE HOUSE OF COMMONS  TO BE PRINTED 23RD MAY, I87I.  VNV ESED E an OE BS  THE IDENTITY OF Tl VACCINE DISEASE,  AND  RINDERPEST OR CATTLE PLAGUE.  ILLUSTRATED WITH  CHROMO-LITHOGRAP HIC PLATES.  LONDON:  W. YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE, HARROW ROAD. W.  1879. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms COMPULSORY VACCINATION.   Speech of Nr. P. A. Tavyror, M.P., o7z Zhe Second  Reading of the Vaccination Act (Ireland) Amend-  ment Bill, April 7th, 1879.  NOT REPORTED BY THE LONDON DAILY PAPERS.  Mr. GIBsonN moved the second reading of this Bill which,  he explained, proposed to apply to Ireland some of the provisions  of the vaccination law of England (laughter).  Mr. Hopwoop moved the rejection of the measure, on the  ground that it would oppress the people of Ireland by compelling,  with repeated convictions, any man in that country to do what he  might honestly consider dangerous to the health of his child.  Mr. P. A. TAYLOR, in rising to second the amendment that  the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said : I am  very sorry to be obliged to trouble the House with any remarks  at this late hour of the evening, but I must remind the House  that it is not my fault that I have to do so, but rather the fault of  the Government in bringing on a Bill of this importance at the  present hour. I will not, however, detain the House for more  than a few moments. ‘There appears to me to be a little con-  fusion in the minds of hon. members on this subject, for they are  mixing up in this debate the question of the excellence of  vaccination with the question of the desirability of making  vaccination compulsory, which is an entirely different matter.  For my part I have no opinion to express at the present moment  as to the excellence of vaccination, and the House would not care  to listen to me if I ventured to express any opinion on that  subject at the present time. I will only therefore say that I was  a member of the Committee of 1871 which considered the subject  of vaccination. Since that time my attention has been directed  to the subject, in consequence of what I believe to be the injustice  and the impropriety of compulsory vaccination, and from the This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 4   statistics and other information which I have since that time been  - able to obtain, my opinion has been so far modified with regard  to vaccination that I could not now put my name to the report of  the Committee, which at the time was unanimously agreed to.  The objection I have is to compulsory vaccination ; my hon.  friends round me, and my hon. friend the member for the county  of Galway (Mr. Mitchell Henry), boast of the enthusiastic ad-  herence of the Irish people to vaccination. The obvious answer  to that boast seems to me to be, that if they so willingly accept it  there is no need for pressing upon them this terrible compulsion—  for terrible it is to those who object to it. In my opinion  every element which could justify the compulsory  enforcement of vaccination and could justify the State  in standing between parents and the health of their  children, is wanting in the present condition of the  science and the statistics of vaccination. At one time  and another there has been a good deal of opinion expressed in  this House as to the views of the anti-vaccination party, and  much expression of disgust at their views, and repudiation of their  conduct in opposing the vaccination of their children. They have  been talked of as prejudiced fools, as traders in disease, and as  mere obstinate wrong-headed persons standing between the self-  evident good and advantage of their children, and the benevolence  of the State. Perhaps I may be allowed to say that, that seems  to be an altogether wrong way of putting it. We cannot express  the general opinion on the question of vaccination without taking  into consideration what is undoubtedly the fact, that there does  exist in the country a great amount of honest opposition to the  principle of vaccination. I have seen dozens and scores of  persons who tell me that they honestly believe that their children  had died from vaccination, and who had told me all that had  happened, with every circumstance and detail. They have told  me how they took perfectly healthy children to be vaccinated,  how an incision was made in the arm, how in the course of a few  days a sore appeared there, how it spread on the arm, and from  thence all over the body, and how, finally, the children died in  agony. Now they are wrong in their opinions, if you please, but  they. would be utterly heartless and unfeeling if, holding the  opinion that vaccination is dangerous, they were to suffer their  children to undergo vaccination. I maintain that all the  elements justifying compulsion on the part of the  State are wanting in this instance of vaccination.  In the first place there is not that certainty in the results which  was boasted of by Jenner, and believed in as the fact at that  time. During his life-time vaccination was believed to be an  absolute cure and specific for smallpox, It was said that children This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 5   who had been vaccinated were subsequently -inoculated, or at-  tempted to be inoculated, with smallpox, and that the attempt  entirely failed, thus proving the excellence of vaccination. But  if that was true then, it is most clearly not true now, for whenever  there 1s an epidemic of smallpox scores and hundreds of children  die of smallpox, and are acknowledged to have died of smallpox,  who had previously been vaccinated. It must be remembered  also that the figures put before us by the Government are utterly  unreliable, unreliable partly because it is acknowledged by medical men to be impossible when children have died of small  pox to tell afterwards whether they have been vaccinated or not,  and unreliable also because it is a principle with medical men not  to return children who have died from the effects of vaccination  as having so died. It has been stated by medical men that they  do not like to cast a slur upon the system, and therefore they do  not return deaths by vaccination, even where they do occur.  There was a case at Leeds the other day, where the child died  from  vaccination , and the surgeon inserted that as the cause of  death in his certificate. But the coroner, who was also a medical  man, was one of those who did not like to cast a slur upon the  system, and opposed that course. He said vaccination was not a  death known to the law, and accordingly the child was returned  as having died from another cause. In fact the poor child had  committed a legal offence in venturing to die under such circum-  stances. Then again since vaccination has been made absolutely  compulsory in this country, deaths of smallpox had actually in-  creased (hear, hear). Since the year 1853, there had been an  increase in the per centage of deaths. Then there is Germany,  the best vaccinated country in the world. ‘There the deaths from  smallpox in the last epidemic were something frightful. All these  are ample evidences to show that there is ground for the pre-  sumption, and for the doubt, whether it is wise to vaccinate their  children. Far more than this it is no longer held that it is  absolutely safe to vaccinate children, as was stated to us when the  Committee sat in 1871. During the first part of the time that the  Committee sat, the doctors who were called before us declared it  to be impossible that syphilis and other diseases could be communi-  cated by inoculation, while it was actually proved to demonstration  before we finished our sittings that thirteen cases of syphilis  had, arisen from one case of vaccination alone (hear,  hear). Indeed that fact is now notorious all over Europe. Notso  very long ago that famous physician, Dr. Ricord, declared that if  it could be shown in any one case that syphilis was the result of  B  vaccination, vaccination must cease to be practised, because it  would be perfectly impossible to make sure that the child from  whom the lymph was taken was safe. I do not think it is going This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms g   too far to say that where there is risk on the one hand, and this  chance of syphilis and other horrible diseases on the other, that it  is abominable tyranny for the State to step in, to stand between  the parent and the child and to say that the child shall incur the  risk of syphilis rather than incur the risk of catching smallpox.  Then at the very least the state is in this dilemma. Either  vaccination is a certain prophylactic, and then you don’t; need  compulsion, because those only run a risk who neglect the operation,  or it is not at all certain, and then you have no right to enforce it  on parents. But the real fact is, you do not enforce it in the only  real direct way. You do not dare so to enforce it. The only  thorough way to enforce this compulsion is for the State to take  the child out of the mother’s arms and vaccinate it. You do not  dare to do that, and you further only oppress the very poor, who  have no power to resist your tyranny. Peoplein the middle-classes  who object to compulsory vaccination are not summoned, and there  are actually members in this Höusê who avoid the law, who do not  have their children vaccinated, and yet are not punished (loud cries  of “ No, no.”) Therefore the law ceases to become something  enacted for the protection of society at large, and degenerates  instead into merely a piece of class legislation. Finally,if va€cina-  Bill read a second time.  0! —=t> TEE — O0 This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Wuen Mr. George Dornbusch was before Mr. Hannay,   at the Worship Street Police Court, Nov. 8th, 1872,  he said that the course he felt bound to follow was in  order to give publicity to the question of Compulsory  Vaccination. “We cannot get the assistance of the  press: 7e Times, for instance, rejects our aguments.  We have great difficulty in making our complaints  heard in the local papers, and this is the best place  at our disposal to make our principles known.”  When Mr. P. A. Taylor rises to second the amend-  ment of Mr. Hopwood, for the rejection of a measure  which had for its object compelling, with repeated con-  victions, the people of Ireland to do what they might  honestly consider dangerous to the health of their  children, “ his speech is not reported by the London  ,  Daily Papers.” The select Committee on Parliamen-  tary reporting, however, informs us that there are to be  over a hundred reporters employed in the House, and  that the provincial reporters are to have eight places  in the gallery. The Paz! News writes, suter alta,  May 24th—“ With regard to the official report of the  debates, they considered that the objections outweigh  any advantages which would be derived from it. Al-  though they recommend the continuance of Hansard’s  debates, they thought he should make provision for  a more prompt publication, even though some ad- This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 8   ditional expense might be incurred.” Z7%e G/oðe, May  24th, ter ala, writes— “It is said to recommend  that an increased subvention and additional accommo-  dation be given to Mr. Hansard for his /a7 fa (7) sys-  tem of reporting.” The excellent speech of Mr: Taylor  has been reported in the Meland Free Press, April  12th, 1879, in which Mr. Taylor says that he was a  member of the Committee of 1871 which considered  the subject of vaccination, and that since that time his  attention has been directed to what he believes to be  the injustice and impropriety of compulsory  vaccination  tion, and that from the statistics and other information  which since that time he has been able to obtain, his  opinion has been so far modified that he could ino  longer put his name to the report of the Committee,  which at the time was unanimously agreed to.  Now; as I had the honour of giving evidence be-  fore that Committee ; although I may not claim credit  for having influenced the opinion of the Hon. Mem-  ber for Leicester, I may boast of having preceded  him in the more enlightened views he has since taken  on the subject, and in the very poor opinion he now  must entertain of the Committee.— They appointed as  their Chairman, the Vice-President of the Privy Coun-  cil who informed the House, that it was granted  on the understanding that no doubt should or could  be cast on the “great value of vaccination as a  prophylactic against smallpox.” In addition to  this caution, I heard the Chairman check the wit-  ness who preceded me (Dr. Pearce), with the remark This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms —   9  that- the Committee did not wish to hear a -trea-  tise. on Vaccination: I therefore determined that  I would trust to extempore replies for whatever  questions might be put, the conviction being strong  upon me that they would be of that class which tends rather to baffle a witness than elucidate truth. There  was a time when I believed in vaccination, though I  objected to compulsion because I never could believe  in what the medical officer of the Privy Council, (1867) Mr. John Simon, terms the “ Chaotic Terminology of  Contagion,” which I should prefer to call “The Idio-  tic Pathology of Infection.” For these and other  reasons, I have caused my evidence, before the Com-  mittee, to be printed in a more convenient form than in the Blue Book. I may add that I had a hand in  the publication of “Value of Vaccination,” a precis or  digest of Evidence taken before a Committee of the  House of Commons, by T. Baker, Esq., 1871.  Although many things have happened since then,  I hope I may be contributing something to the great  cause in which we all are interested—The Public  Health; and in which (says Z7%e 7zmes, October 8th,  1874), “we are unfortunately still much at the mercy of ignorance, stupidity, greed, and chicanery. Routine,  and bureaucratic jealousies are not yet extinct; indeed  Mr. Lyon Playfair more than hints they still hold their own in high places, and have even not been banished  from the serene atmosphere of the Local Government  Board.”  Already on April 5th, 1856, 7%e Zmes had This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms to   stated its opinion: “There is so much guess-work in  Medicine. The President of the College of Physicians  is so nearly on a level with the meanest herbalist.  The result of the longest, most varied, and most pro-  found medical experience is so often a discovery of  the worthlessness of medicine, that we are not able to  attach overwhelming importance to examinations in  this department of science. Medicine is, in truth,  surgery at fault; and the difference between the two  is precisely the difference that there is between mathe-  matics and metaphysics.” After all this, how comes  it that no London Daily Paper reported one of' the  best speeches, on one of the most important subjects,  affecting Politics, party, private life and principle, that  either at this or any other juncture, ever came before  the consideration of Parliament.  J. EIO  N.B.—It will be a comfort to some timid persons, who believe  in the idiotic hypothesis of infection, to know that Dr. Brewer,)the  chairman of the Sick Asylums’ Board, laughs at the panic fear of  smallpox affecting the neighbourhood of the Hospital at Hamp-  stead. Dr. Brewer is reported, in Ze Æc/o, for November 23rd,  1878, to have stated that “ His wife used to go the hospital itself  to see the matron, and the matron used to come to his house, and  although his child used to greet the matron when she paid a visit,  no contagion passed.” “Fear did predispose a person to catch a  disease.” By Mr. Willis. “ How did the fear arise in the matter?”  Witness. “ From the hubbub which was made in the neighbour-  hood.” Mr. Herschell. “But did the hubbub arise from fear?”  Witness. “ Precisely so.” (Laughter.) It will likewise be consola-  tory to those whose fears have not disturbed their reason, and  who have no interested motive in the background, to read in Ze  Times, February 21st; “ Paris.”—“ At the meeting of the Academy  of Sciences M. de Lesseps declared, from his experience of the  plague in Egypt, in 1834, that it is not contagious. The patients  may be waited on without danger.” This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms OBJECT AND CONSTITUTION OF THE   COMMITTEE.  Monday, 13th February, 1871.  Ordered, That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire  into the operation of the Vaccination Act (1867), and to Report  whether such an Act should be amended.  Thursday, 16th February, 1871.  Committee nominated of—  Mr. William Edward Forster Dr. Lyon Playfair  Mr. Stephen Cave Mr: Holt  Mr. Candlish Mr. Taylor  Mr. William Henry Smith Sir Dominic Corrigan Mr. Muntz Dr. Brewer  Lord Robert Montagu Mr. Alderman Carter  M. Jacob Bright Mr. Hibbert  Sir Smith Child  Ordered, That the Committee have power to send for Persons,  Papers, and Records.  Ordered, That Five be the Quorum of the Committee.  MINUTES OF EVIDENCE.  JOHN TOMLINSON HIBBERT, Esq., IN THE CHAIR.  SIR JERVOISE CLARKE JERVOISE, Bart., called in; and Examined.  765. Chairman.} You were Member for South Hants from  1857 to 1868, were you not?—I was.  766. Are you a magistrate for the county of Southampton ?—  Yes; I have been a magistrate I think from the year 1835 to the  present moment.  767. And you have attended regularly at the Petty Sessions and  at the Board of Guardians, have you not?—Yes; but not so  regularly at Quarter Sessions.  768. When did you discontinue to act as magistrate ?—I think  it was at the Michaelmas or Epiphany Sessions of 1868.  769. Had you some particular reasons for discontinuing to act  in the capacity of a magistrate and Guardian?—Yes; I gave notice  ofa motion at the Quarter Sessions, and I announced my intention  of no longer acting in a magisterial capacity.  770. What was your reason for so doing ?—The reason that I  gave was, that I was a disbeliever altogether in the theory of  infection. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 12   771. Were those the grounds of your discontinuing to act?—  Yes; and that as it would be a magistrate’s duty to enforce the  cattle plague laws and the Privy Council Orders on the cattle  plague ; and as the compulsory vaccination was coming on, on the  īst of January in the following year, I said I could not conscienti-  ously enforce those laws, and I wished to resign the magistracy  altogether ; but I was told that once a magistrate I was always a  magistrate, and so I have remained, but without acting.  7'72. Did you take some step in the House of Commons with  respect to the question ?— Yes, I did; I moved a certain resolution  praying for an inquiry into the distinction between infection and  contagion. I think the noble Lord, the Member for Huntingdon-  shire, who now sits as judge, was the promoter at that time of the  Compulsory Vaccination Bill.  773. That was in the year 1867, I think ?—It was in the year  1867.  7'74. You called attention also in the House of Commons to the  immunity of the nurses in attendance at the smallpox hospitals,  did you not?—Yes ; I am not sure whether I might not have been  almost the first to call attention to the subject. The medical offi-  cer of the Privy Council in one of his reports mentions the fact, and  he adduces it as a proof of the efficacy of vaccination against infec-  tion, which he is pleased to call contagion, from which I venture  to differ ; but I adduced it as a proof that smallpox was not infec-  tious, or it would have affected them as it did so many of the  patients who were in the hospital who had been previously  vaccinated.  7'75. Did you call attention to the case of Emmanuel Cook  also ?—I did.  776. Was that a case of smallpox ?—It was. Emmanuel Cook  was a pauper, and he had been shut up in the pest-house in the  contagious ward (which I should have called the infectious ward)  of the Aylesbury Union, I think, from which he had escaped. ` He  was under treatment for smallpox by Mr. Robert Ceely, the medi-  cal officer of the establishment. The man expressed a desire to go  out and see his friends, which was not unnatural, I think; but,  however, it was considered right to keep him in close confinement.  He escaped no less than twice, and alarmed the neighbouring vil-  lages very much from the terror which they had been taught to  entertain as to the communicability of smallpox.  777. Was he labouring under smallpox at the time when he  escaped ?—Yes ; he escaped twice, so that he tried the experiment  twice over, and was brought up before the magistrates. Being a  pauper, and having come out of the workhouse, he was fined 5s.,  and 12s. 64. costs, and the Bench intimated their intention, on the  recurrence of any similar case, to impose a much heavier penalty. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 13   Upon that, I founded a question to know whether the Home Sec-  retary at the time had notice of this fact, and whether there had  been any bad consequences from Emmanuel Cook’s escapade; I  gaye the longest notice I could to Mr. Hardy, who was Home  Secretary at the time. I think from the Friday to the Tuesday  following, or something of that kind, and on the Tuesday follow-  ing I asked the question. Mr. Hardy said that he had no answer  to give me, because it took a long time as it was a Bench case,  and the clerk of the Bench had not answered, or something of that  kind. It was very disagreeable to me to have to put this question  over again ; but, however, I was prepared to do it. I am not quite  certain whether I gave notice of the question over again, but Mr.  Hardy came up to me in the washing-room of the House of Com-  mons, and he said: “I have had an answer to your question ;  there was no harm done; Emmanuel Cook did no harm by his  going out with the smallpox upon him.” I could not say to Mr.  Hardy that mine was a public question put in a public place, and  that I should ask for a public answer, because it would have  implied that I thought that he was getting out of the difficulty by  his private answer, and I was obliged to accept it as an answer to  my question, and no answer was therefore publicly given in the  House of Commons.  778. Had the man gone into any person’s house ?—Cook had  for some time been an inmate of the workhouse, and had expressed  his desire to see his friends, and Mr. Ceely said he must not go out.  Regardless of this veto, however, Cook managed to evade the  observation of the parties in charge of the pest-house and escaped ;  proceeding while in that condition along the high road through  several populous villages as far as Wingrave, where he incautiously  called at people’s houses, and as they were aware of his state set  the whole population in a terrible fright.  7'79. So far as you know no injurious results took place ?—Mr.  Hardy’s reply was thatit was unattended with any evil consequences  whatsoever.  780. You have paid attention to the subject of the supposed  security from smallpox by vaccination, and you, I believe, have  grounds for doubting its efficacy ?—I have.  781. What are those grounds ?—In the first place, I am not quite  certain whether I am right or. wrong in referring to the noble Lord  the Member for Huntingdonshire’s speech in the House of Commons,  on the going into Committee on the Vaccination Bill, but his Lord-  ship will recollect very well that he, by implication, charged those  who were hostile to vaccination with murder. The 15th of June  1867 was the date of the Compulsory Vaccination Bill. At that  time the Privy Council had, or ought to have had, the report of the  smallpox Hospital in their possession. I do notknow whether his This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 14   Lordship had it or not, but if he had, it seems an extraordinary  charge to make even by implication, when the report of the small  pox Hospital for 1866, which is a medical report, on which thecase  of the nurses’ immunity was founded by me, makes this statement:  They “request attention to the existence of an epidemic of small  pox which, judging from the facts supplied to us by the Smallpox  Hospital, has, from the length of time it has continued, and inthe  number of persons attacked, very far exceeded every similar  visitation within the memory of the present generation.” That does  not look as if vaccination at that time had been very effective.  But afterwards it says: “2,069 patients were admitted into the  smallpox Hospital in the year 1866, and of these, 32 were  -suffering from various forms of disease, not smallpox.” So there,  again, we have evidence that these diseases were incommunicable.  Of the 2,037 cases of smallpox, 425 occurred in unvaccinated  persons, and 1,605 in persons who had been vaccinated,  782. Does itgive the fatality amongst those persons ?—I suppose  it does afterwards ; but this is the effect of vaccination in giving what  is called security against smallpox ; because the amount of mortality  is a very poor criterion, in my estimation. You ought to see a  man’s rent-roll, and his banker’s book, and so on, in order to`'see  whether in his case smallpox is likely to be attended with fatal  results or not. And I may be permitted to remark that the fatality  of smallpox in the last generation was not altogether due to the  absence of vaccination ; but it was very differently treated from  what it is now, and we know that the general health has improved,  and the character of disorders is not so serious as it used to'be.  “ There were three cases occurring after a previous attack of natural  smallpox.” That is contrary to my own expectation, becaùse I  should have thought that one attack of disease ought, in a sortof  way, to be a safeguard against its recurrence ; but I take it again  that there the main reason is, that a man never arrives at the same  period of life again, and at every period of life there are certain  diseases to which he is more or less subject. We know that the  diseases of infancy are not likely to occur after puberty, and soon.  ‘Therefore I think that that may be a great reason. But there were  three cases occurring after a previous attack of smallpox, two cases  after inoculation, and two cases after vaccination and smallpox.  “ One of the three cases which occurred after natural smallpox died,  as did also one ofthe two cases occurring after vaccination and small  pox.” Here is a list of the different disorders in the unvaccinated:  “ From scarlatina, 1.” ‘That did not spread in the Hospital. “In  the vaccinated, from pycmia, 2; erysipelas, 1 (that is down in the  Registrar Generals report as what they call a contagious disease);  gangrene, 1; hospital fever, 1; severe pelvic inflammation  accompanying smallpox, 1 ; diarrhæœa, 1 ; typhus accompanying This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 15   smallpox, 1 ; disease of the heart, 1 ; and disease of the chest 1.”  I did not obtain that report until after the discussion had come on ;  but the Committee will see by the date that it was or ought to have  been in the possession of honourable Members, although I think  the date of these publications is not always a criterion of when they  are published, because I have myself asked in the House of  Commons when the Medical Officer’s Report would be published ;  he is bound to publish it by the 31st of March, and he generally  returns it after Parliament has broken up, and Members have had  enough of blue books.  783. You say that you do not believed in the effects of vac-  cination ; I suppose you do not believed in the effects of re-vacci-  nation ?—Certainly not ; but I will give additional reasons with  regard to vaccination. I have two relations with whom I have  liyed on terms of the greatest intimacy, one of them has died and  the other survives. ‘They were vaccinated by Jenner himself;  their father told me that they were in such a state that he did not  know his own children.  784. In what way were they in such a state?—With confluent  smallpox ; it is something to have happened to an individual like  myself, not in practice of any kind, to be connected with anybody  who was vaccinated by Jenner, and to have those results follow,  particularly when the people were in easy circumstances.  785. In that case which you have just mentioned did the  confluent smallpox come immediately after vaccination, or did it  come at some period afterwards ?—I cannot tell you ; if you wish  for dates, I could, I have no doubt, obtain them, but it would be  disagreeable to do so; they were vaccinated by Jenner, and you  of ‘course, it was not immediately afterwards, but they were very  young at the time ; they were contemporaries of mine, or, perhaps,  two or three years older than myself. I was born in 1804, and they  might have been born, I should think, one, or both of them, within  this century ; I think one was born at the end of the last century ;  I know that for one case. With regard to re-vaccination, I know  a child that was re-vaccinated ! I knew it particularly well. There  never was a cleaner-skinned child in this world than it was ; it was  a case of re-vaccination. Very often itis said, “ Oh ! there must  havê been something wrong to come out in that way ;” this child was  a mass of ulcers or abscesses, or-whatever you chose to call it, from  head to foot, and it was vaccinated from the healthiest child that  could be obtained in the district.  786. What age was the child ?—I should say about nine or ten,  or something of the kind ; it was vaccinated by the medical man of  the district, who was acting for the squire of the district ; and there-  fore spared no pains to get the best subject he could ; but with that This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 16   child it acted in that way ; that is within my own knowledge and  experience, and, perhaps, that is worth more than anything else I  could say. I have asked questions in the House of Commons with  regard to a recent outbreak of smallpox at Woolwich, and I think  the Noble Lord answered me on that occasion ; and the answer  was, that he took it that the number of deaths of persons who had  the smallpox arose from imperfect vaccination in the first instance.  His Lordship might take it for that, but that is not what I take it  for. I think these are, most probably, soldiers who are vaccinated  in regular form; and I could mention that recently the Scots  Fusilier Guards, who were all re-vaccinated in regular form, had the  smallpox very badly, and some deaths occurred, and because  vaccination had signally failed with them, they vaccinated and. re-  vaccinated all the boys at Eton at that time 880, at ros. 6d. each.  787. To what time do you refer when the Scots Fusilier Guards  were re-vaccinated ?—I happened to have a grandson at Eton, and  I had to pay ros. 6d. for his vaccination ; he had been vaccinated  twice before, and they did not ask whether he had been vaccinated  before, or whether he required it, but he ought to have been  secure.  788. I suppose he has been secure so far ?—Quite so ; but I do  not know that he would necessarily have caught it if he had not been  vaccinated quite so often ; it was before the Mid-summer holidays  the Scots Fusilier Guards were vaccinated.  789. What do you wish to prove with respect to the Scots  Fusilier Guards ?—That the re-vaccination of the Scots Fusilier  Guards did not prevent their having the smallpox, because soldiers  are all re-vaccinated, I believe.  790. Did those cases of smallpox occur after re-vaccination ?—  After re-vaccination ; some of them were fatal, I believe.  791. Did the fatal cases occur before the re-vaccination, or after  the re-vaccination ?—I think they are re-vaccinated when they  oin.  792. When were the Scots Fusilier Guards re-vaccinated ?—  They are not all re-vaccinated together; I suppose when a  recruit joins he is probably re-vaccinated; I do not think the  smallpox had become an epidemic at that time.  793. Do you wish to prove that those fatal cases occurred after  the re-vaccination of the Fusilier Guards ?—After vaccination or re-vaccination. :  794. And in consequence of re-vaccination ?—No, I do not say  that.  795. You say that after being re-vaccinated they took smallpox,  and some of them died ?—Yes.  796. Do you know how many of them died ?—I do not. I  merely took the report from the papers ; and I know that the boys | This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 17  at Eton were re-vaccinated in consequence, and that I consider  cireumstantial evidence.  797. Then you have not ascertained it as a matter of fact ?—  Certainly not.  798. That reference which you made to the Fusilier Guards is  merêly from what you saw in the newspaper, and you do not give  it from your own knowledge, or from any inquiry you have made  as to its truth ?—No.  799. It may, or may not, be true ?—It can hardly fail to be true ;  it is not a piece of 0; dé; I could, of course, have come with  evidence to that effect. I have a letter here from a relation of  mine, who is down at Brighton, and he dates his letter March the  1st. ` He says, “I find a friend here with his left hand all over  black stains; he had been done (that is vaccinated), and had  erisypelas, and been cauterised, and now considers he is safe for  life ; at least, he says he will never be done again.” Well, I have  no doubt he is safe for life. Referring to the Registrar Generals  repórts, probably many of the Committee will have noticed that he  gives the result of vaccination at different periods of life ; and he  says that so many die (without giving you the numbers) at an early  age ; so many before 20, and so many after 20, and fewer beyond  thè age of 40, and he deduces from that the fact that the security  of vaccination does not wear out because there are fewer who die  at a later period of life. If I may be allowed to make that  argument hop on the other leg, as they say, it appears to me that  the nearer you are to the process of vaccination, the more fatal  the results of smallpox are.  860. Do you mean that also to apply to re-vaccination ?—Re-  vaccination must take place at a later period of life. He gives the  proportion, but I beg pardon for saying that I am not talking of  re-vaccination. I understood that the question was as to the  efficiency of what is called Jenner’s security against smallpox. In  the present epidemic I think one may be allowed to say SZ 772072-  mentum queris, circumspice, and see what the security has been.  801. You say that you formerly believed in the beneficial effects  of vaccination ; why have you changed your opinion, and are now  opposed to compulsion ?—I did believe in it. I thought it im-  possible but that it must have some effect, upon the principle  that smia similibus curantur; that it either occupied a place in  the system, or it caused some fermentation in the blood, and so on,  that would make the person less susceptible of the same disease.  802. But is it not the fact that there are fewer fatal cases now  from smallpox than there were in former years ?—lIt is quite true,  but then the whole system of life is changed ; and, as I say, the  treatment of smallpox is changed altogether. Moreover, small  pox might very well have disappeared about Jenner’s time, as it This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 18  has periods of disappearance now. There is no reason in the  world why there should not have been that coincidence. But I  will give a stronger reason why it should have been a coincidence.  Jenner’s cowpox has disappeared from the country, so to say, and  simultaneously the smallpox which he was supposed to prevent by  it. As for compulsory vaccination, I have looked upon it in this  light, that you have no right to interfere with the liberties of another  unless those liberties are injurious to the country at large; and  then I think you ought to prove that smallpox is communicable  (it is not for us to disprove it), and that vaccination will prevent  smallpox from being communicated. I ask permission to read  these two letters of my own which appeared in a newspaper, al-  though I do not set them before the Committee as an example of  style. The first is dated June, 1867. “To the Editor of the Pall  Mall Gazette. Vaccination.—Sir,—I am confident you will be glad  to correct an error in the Parliamentary Intelligence (Vaccination  Bill) of your paper of the 15th. It is there stated ‘Mr. Barrow  and Sir J. Jervoise raised a protest against vaccination altogether,  on the strength of statements which Mr. Bruce could not help call-  ing ‘idle gossip.’ I addressed the House on a motion for further  information, and reminded the House that it was Jenner’s obser-  vation in arm-to-arm vaccination, putrid and not vaccine matter  was constantly inserted ; moreover, that the Cattle Plague Com-  missioners had demonstrated vaccinia and rinderpest to be similar,  if not identical disorders.” (That, I beg leave to observe, is  where I think Jenner’s cowpox disappeared, and how it has re-ap-  peared.) “The insertion of such animal matter by compulsory  legislation within three months of the infants birth in the heéight  of summer, when every Londoner knows how rapidly his cream  ‘turns,’ was entitled to the most ample and most recent informa-  tion. I had always considered vaccination a palliative, and not a  remedy, for smallpox ; and that (on this subject) the book of science  was not closed. It could not be intended to apply the term “idle  gossip’ to these remarks, nor can it be said that I objected to'vac-  cination altogether.” That was the first letter. Then there was a  second one in the following year, 1868, on compulsory vaccination :  “Sir, I find in your article, ‘House of Commons,’ yesterday, you  have been misled by me into the assertion that I denounced vac-  cination as cruel and useless. In spite of the repugnance that some  persons may feel against inserting into the arms of children of the  tenderest age a disorder identical with rinderpest, and, in hot weath-  er, matter in a state of putrefaction, besides other virus; notwith-  standing that vaccination is no security against smallpox, the report  of the Hospital, 1867, informing us that 81 per cent. (I speak from  memory) of the patients have been vaccinated, and recent cases.  demonstrating that the most elevated ranks are not exempted” (I This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 19  heard some evidence the day before yesterday, although that is  newspaper evidence again, that persons in office and in high rank  havehad the smallpox, and that in one case it came from Scot-  land); “and notwithstanding the fact that for 30 years there has  been no instance of the spread of the disease amongst the attend-  ants at the smallPox Hospital, proving that it is not very highly  communicable, I have only opposed compulsory vaccination. To  make it compulsory within three months of the birth of the child,  when the struggle for life is keenest, under penalty of fine and  imprisonment to the mother for non-compliance, in the height of  summer or the depth of winter, is, in my opinion, cruel and use-  less.” It ought, perhaps, to be “the parent” instead of “the  mother ;” but in the well-known case of Maria Sepple, she unfortu-  nately was a mother and a parent, and incurred the blame herself;  and, as is well-known, she was fined and imprisoned, and came  out again very soon. From what I see constantly occurring,  without bringing the details before the Committee, all the cases  that are constantly reported at the police offices are for what they  call breaking the law, and incurring the danger of communicating  what they call contagious disease.  803. Then I understand you to object, not to vaccination itself,  but to compulsory vaccination ?—I object now to both. If you  choose to do it, perhaps that cannot be prevented, but I object  to compulsory vaccination ; and if compulsion was removed, I do  not think much vaccination would go on with the very small  advantages that seem to have been derived from it.  804. You say you are astonished that the effect of vaccination  should be so trifling for good or for evil; how can you say that, if  you look at the mortality amongst the vaccinated and the unvac-  cinated cases?—I just now said that I think that is a very unfair  criterion, unless you can see the banking book of those attacked.  I think the chances are that you would find that those who  perished in the greatest number were those in the greatest distress ;  and you would probably also find that they are the most neglec-  ted class, who even if they believed in vaccination could not afford  time or money to go through the operation: that is why I say  sO.  805. Do you make any difference as to the effect in the towns  and in the country districts ?—I am not versed in that question; I  have not studied it at -all; but I should think the chances were  that any disease would be more severe that prevailed at a period  when the food, and a thousand things of that sort, would be more  likely to be unwholesome in a town than they would in the coun-  try. There are a great many cases in the country that I know  in my own neighbourhood, but of course in a town, disease gene-  rally makes itself more perceived than elsewhere; this is what This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 20  I have shown before now in the House of Commons. I produce  the plate (Øroducing a coloured picture), representing Mr. Hancock’s  hand* as it appeared after he had wounded himself in dissecting a  beast which died of the cattle plague, and that was my reason for  saying that it was rather frightful for a mother, within three  months of the child’s birth, when the strnggle for life is at its most  critical point, that she should have to submit her child to the  introduction of cattle plague into its veins.  * Third Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the origin  and nature of the Cattle Plague, 1866.  To the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty.  (Signed) Spencer,  Cranborne,  Robert Lowe,  Lyon Playfair,  Clare Sewell Read,  H. Bence Jones,  Richard Quain,  E. A. Parkes,  Thos. Wormald,  Robert Ceely,  Charles Spooner.  1st May, 1866.  Montague Bernard.  Appendix to Third Report of the Cattle Plague Commissioners.  Dr. Murchison. . Report to Commissioners, p. 77.  “In the case, of which the particulars are here annexed, and for an  opportunity of seeing which I am indebted to Dr. Quain, a vesicle presenting  the appearances and running the ordinary course of vaccine was apparently  produced in the human subject by the inoculation of rinderpest matter.”  Supplement, p. 79.  * Notes of the History of the Case of Mr. HENRY HANCOCK, Veterinary  Surgeon and Inspector, Uxbridge. (Drawn up by Robert Ceely, Esq.)  On the 3rd December 1865 Mr. Henry Hancock, Veterinary Inspector,  Uxbridge, was engaged in superintending the autopsy of a bullock recently  dead of Cattle Plague. His assistant, who was prfrming the operation,  while occupied in removing the skin from the scrotum, accidentally punctured  the back of Mr. Hancock’ hand with the point of the knife, The puncture  being slight was disregarded at the time, but was washed as soon as practic-  able and thought of no more. On the 8th, five days afterwards, a small,  slightly-elevated, hard pimple was felt and seen on the site of the puncture.  This gradually advanced till the ninth day from the puncture, the fourth’  from papulation, when the enlarged pimple became distinctly vesicular, At  that time there were but slight constitutional symptoms. On the next day,  the tenth from’ the receipt of the puncture, the fifth of papulation, and the  second of vesiculation, he called upon his surgeon, Mr. Rayner, of Uxbridge,  who, on seeing the hand, inquired ‘if the patient had been handling the  udder of a cow, for that he could recognize a cowpox vesicle of the ninth  day?” The vesicle was then distended with limpid lymph, its margin elevated  and rather brown, centre depressed and rather brown, and was surrounded This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 21I  806. Have you any other remark that you wish to make to the  Committee ?—I do not know that I have, except upon the main  question of the communicability of disease; I have had some  little experience in the country in these disorders of animals, both  from acting (as I have done) as a magistrate to a recent time, and  in cases of what, as I say, are termed contagious diseases, but  which as a term I cannot admit to be correct; I think that still  the day must come, and it ought to have arrived already, when  the distinction between infection and contagion shall be clearly  marked ; for it is ludicrous to see what I could show you here;  that one person is fined for being in a carriage having a contagious  disease upon him, and the next, a lodging-house keeper, is punished  for harbouring women having contagious disease upon them. ‘To  say that both those cases are similar, is what is called science, but  I dispute altogether the scientific knowledge of the physicians ; it  is a different thing with surgery, but medicine is not a science, and  they do not seem to be able to express what they want in scientific  terms ; science, I believe, according to Dr. Johnson’s definition, is  knowledge founded upon facts, and facts, he says, are realities,  not suppositions. Now,a great many of these are not facts at all,  and therefore they are not science ; what supported me very much  in my views was a book which I read some years ago by Professor  Liebig, translated by the honourable Member for the University of  Edinburgh, I believe ; and unless all those theories are altogether  upset, I think I am entitled to entertain the opinion I do entertain,  as to the non-infectious nature of smallpox. There area hundred  authorities that I could quote, and if I were to quote them, their  names would be legion ; I could go into the health of the navy ;  there is not a ship or a station, where they have not smallpox  after vaccination ; I have here a rough statement of that.  .with a large bright red areola. There was then considerable tumefaction,  extending from the knuckles above the wrist. The absorbent vessels were  visibly inflamed ; they and the axillary glands were tender and painful.  The pulse, naturally slow, was accelerated. There was much pain in  the back and limbs, severe and distracting head-ache, anorexia, &c., &c., all  of which symptoms continued to increase during the two following days. At  the end of that time the diffused areola had extended as far as the elbow.  On the 18th December, fifteen days after the puncture and ten days  after papulation, the patient was seen in London by Drs, Quain and  Murchison and by Professors Spooner and Simonds.  The local inflammation and the constitutional symptoms had then  partially subsided. The vesicle contained a rather turbid brownish fluid,  and there were present all the indications of a declining vaccine vesicle.  The above particulars were detailed to me by Mr. Hancock and Mr.  Rayner, on my visit to them at Uxbridge on the 20th December. And  on my exhibiting the different phases of the vaccine vesicle on the hand  of a milker, depicted in plates 3, 4, and 5 of ‘Further Observations on  the Variolæ Vaccinæ ” (Transactions of the Provincial Medical and Surgical This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 22  807. In saying that they have smallpox after vaccination, do  you mean that it is induced by vaccination, or that they are liable  to smallpox after vaccination?—I believe the correct term would  be “post-vaccinal smallpox;” they have been re-vaccinated ; I  have extracts as to the health of the navy at all stations.  808. Lord A. Montagu] Yòu produced just now a picture of  Dr. Hancock’s hand, in the Report of the Cattle Plague Com-  missioners; what did you produce it to prove?—To prove that  the cattle plague was vaccinia.  809. How do you think that it proves that?—This is my own  extract from the book. Mr. Robert Ceely, of Aylesbury, and  others, could not detect any difference between cowpox and rind-  erpest in Mr. Hancock’s case. Itis Dr. Murchison’s evidence  as to the pathological relations of the cattle plague to other  diseases.  810. Does it amount to this: that Mr. Robert Ceely supposed  that cowpox and cattle plague were the same?—Yes; but this  plate of the hand represents a case of what I thought was called  vaccinia, although I may be wrong.  811. Are you aware that Mr. Robert Ceely failed to sustain that  idea, that it broke down altogether, and was negatived by the whole  Commission ?—I was not aware of that. I see here that it says  that “it certainly exhibits the appearance which I have often seen.”  812. Are you aware whether Mr. Robert Ceely gave up the  notion himself on further enquiry ?—No, I am not; but I should  have thought even then that the mistake might have been in the  correction as probably as in the first assertion.  Association, Vol. X.), Mr. Hancock immediately recognized their exact  correspondence with those which had occurred on his hand.  On this day, 20th December, being the/eighteenth of puncturation and  the thirteenth of papulation, I observed manifest declining œdema of the  integuments on the back of the hand and as far as the elbow, with slight  patches here and there of declining redness near it. The vesicle, which had  been many days poulticed, was depressed in the centre, puckered at its mar-  gin, but still raised on a palpably firm base. It certainly exhibited the  the appearances I have often seen, at a corresponding stage, on the loose  vascular skin of the back of the hand of milkers affected with casual cowpox.  A similar vesicle I have depicted in plate 5, fig. 2, in the work above referred to.  The conclusion drawn from the appearance of the vesicle at this time  was fortified by a consideration of the history of its development. The late  appearance after the puncture, the tardy and gradual papulation and vesicu-  lation, the period of the advent of the areola, its progress, extent, and period  of decline, all corresponding to those phenomena resulting from the casual  inoculation of the milker by the cow affected with vaecinia.  I could not however, but regret that lymph was not abstracted at the  proper time, with a view to exclude all doubt as to its actual character. *  R. CEELY-  * The vesicle, at different stages, is represented in the Plates. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 23  813. The picture in itself does not prove much, I suppose ?—  I am not acquainted with the technical question.  814. You said that you once believed in vaccination, because  you believed in the principle szmzz/za simbus curantur; is that so?  — Yes, I did.  815. Did you cease to believe in vaccination because you ceased  to believe in the homæœopathic principle ?—I hardly know how to  answer that. I am not a homæœopathist; but I think that there  is a good deal of good sense in it, and homæœopathy has’ been  practiced by allopathists in part of their practice.  816. Did you cease to believe in vaccination because you ceased  to believe in the principle that s/a similibus curantur 2—1 do  not know that I ever entertained it sufficiently. ;  817. Why did you cease to believe in vaccination ?—Because of  its failure to secure beneficial effects.  818. Because you have seen persons who have been recently  vaccinated catching the smallpox, is that it ?— Yes, that there has  been no security against smallpox, and it has produced other  disorders.  819. Had you taken pains to investigate whether the vaccination  in those cases had been what is called successful vaccination or  not ?—If it does not produce any beneficial effect, it is not very  successful.  820. You know what is termed successful vaccination, do you  not ?—Yes ; where there are certain marks ; in point of fact, Mr.  Simon has more than once repeated that there is a very nice little  sum divided amongst the successful operators, and I am to  suppose that that means not the results, but that he, the success-  ful operator, is enabled when he has a child’s arm to dig holes in,  to produce an abscess upon it, and that that is what he is rewarded  for, and not for any benefit in the mitigation of suffering and  disease.  821. You do not know the meaning of thè term “successful  vaccination ” which is used in the Act, and is also used among  medical men ?—I think I do, that it produces a certain pustule.  822. Have you ascertained in the cases of persons who have  taken the smallpox whether they have been successfully vaccinated?  —I have just given you an instance of two persons who were  vaccinated by Dr. Jenner himself, and I should have thought that  that would have been sufficient.  823. How did you get that evidence?—They are relations  of mine ; I heard the father state himself that he did not know  his own children.  824. Have you ascertained that those cases were cases of  successful vaccination ?—No ; I ascertained that they were done  by Jenner. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 24  825. That does not prove that they were successful vaccinations,  does it?—N o.  826. I observe in that Report of the smallpox Hospital that the  death rate among the unvaccinated patients was 35 per cent., and  that the death rate among the vaccinated patients was only 6:76  per cent. ; it appears, therefore, that the death rate among the vacci-  nated patients was very much less than among the unvaccinated ;  of those vaccinated patients some might have been vaccinated as  much as 20 or 30 years before, and the effect might have gone  off; is not that so?—I was going to offer in reply the evidence of  the Registrar General.  827. But will you explain to me that fact in the Report of the  smallpox Hospital which you have adduced in support of your  evidence?—My answer is that all things are possible.  828. It appears then that the report which you have adduced in  support of your evidence proves nothing in the world in favour of  the case which you have set up, although it proves a great deal  against it ?—I think that is only your Lordship’s statement ; if the  Committee will allow me to read this, I think it will be an answer  as to the effects of vaccination going off. “The danger of dying  from smallpox diminishes rapidly as age advances, which could  not be the case if the effect of vaccination wore out with time.”  829. The question which I asked you was this: whether the  report of the smallpox Hospital does not prove that a far less  percentage of vaccinated persons than of unvaccinated persons  died from smallpox ?— Certainly.  830. As to the vaccinated persons who die from smallpox, you  do not know how long beforehand they had been vaccinated, do  you ?—No ; then I have an explanation again on the subject of  the vaccinated and unvaccinated ; I think the class of unvacci-  nated persons are more likely to be among the uneducated and  uncared for, and poor.  831. Can you tell the Committee what class of persons. are  admitted into that smallpox Hospital ?—I cannot.  832. Are they all poor persons, or are they at least persons in  the same class of life ?—I should think that the chances were that  the worst cases were sent there.  833. But as we are only taking those persons who were in the  smallpox Hospital, and as they are all in the same class of life,  your argument as to the banker’s book would not apply, would  it ?—No.  834. Mr. Cave.} What distinction do you draw between infection  and contagion ?—lI should say that infection is the communication  of disease at an appreciable distance, and contagion is a communi-  cation of disease at an inappreciable distance.  835. That is to say, that infection is by the neighbourhood ?—  I do not believe in its existence. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 25  836. But that is the interpretation which you put upon the word,  is it ?—At an appreciable distance.  837. What do you call an appreciable distance ?—I do not know  how I could define it.  838. I only want to get exactly the meaning which you place  upon the two words, infection and contagion ?—An appreciable  distance, I should have thought, was as good a definition as I could  give. I cannot see how I can measure it, but I mean not exactly  touching. The very word “contagion ” itself means contact.  839. Contagion, supposing such a thing existed, is the com-  munication of disease by contact, and infection by neighbourhood ;  is that your meaning ?—I suppose so; by those mysterious proto-  plasms, or germs, none of which, however, are proved to exist.  840. Do you disbelieve both in contagion and in infection ?—  Certainly not ; I do not mean to say that you cannot communicate  smallpox by touch or handling.  841. You believe in contagion, but not in infection ?—Just so.  Medical practice every day would show that disease is not  communicated at an appreciable distance. Even by contact  medical men do not get those disorders.  842. I think, if I remember rightly, that you were always entirely  opposed to quarantine when you were in the House ?—Quite so ;  and this isolation and disinfection I do not believe in at all.  843. Do you think that such diseases as yellow fever and cholera,  and scarlet fever, are communicable ?—I do not; and that brings  me to this point. Ihave here a report of the scarlet fever among  children at Aldershot Camp ; I brought the subject before the  House of Commons. Here is a map of the way in which the  fever attacked different parts of the camp, which had no topo-  graphical communication the one with the other. Dr. Barry’s own  statement here is that he had an opportunity rarely occurring of  attempting to trace the history of scarlet fever in its progress  through a given population, and he says that he has not the  slightest proof of its being communicated in any way. Itisa very  remarkable thing that this should have been presented to the  House of Commons, and no notice whatever taken of it in the  had not been vaccinated ?—I know no more about it than I have stated. medical officers’ report.  844. In the case of Emmanuel Cook which you mentioned, do  you know whether in his visits he came in contact with people who  845. You do not believe that smallpox is communicable either  by infection or contagion ?—No, except by inoculation ; I think  the case of the nurses would prove that fact.  846. Therefore I need not ask you whether you think that the  want of vaccination is dangerous to a person’s neighbours as well This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 26  as to himself ?—Apparently, it is only with regard to smallpox  that you have what you call this safeguard ; and it seems curious  that there should be only this one disorder that does not follow the  rules and laws of nosology, or pathology, or whatever the term  may be.  847. Dr. Brewer.) I think you deny the propriety of the term  “ medical science” because you say that it is not founded upon  fact ; is that so ?—TIt is so.  848. I, perhaps, do not understand what you mean by the word  “fact: supposing that the evidence before the American Com-  mission is taken from 49 different territories in Europe, extending  over a period of above 10o years ; that all of them bear precisely  the same way, and are uniformly thus : before vaccination, 2,484  died ; after vaccination, 340 died, within similar periods, extending  over a large number of years ; would you call those facts, or would  you deny them to be facts ?—I say that medicine is not a science,  and I gave the definition from Johnson’s Dictionary, that ‘science  is knowledge, founded on facts,” in support of my statement.  849. I am quite willing to take it that science is knowledge,  founded on facts; but I want to know what you call facts; are  those circumstances which I have stated, facts in your sense, or are  they not facts ?—I daresay they are true.  850. If those are facts, and we arrive at our conclusion, in  consequence of those facts, that vaccination is a protection against  smallpox, will you not say that that is science, and a scientific  deduction ?—I say that those are facts ; but the deduction which  you make from them does not at all follow from them.  851. But knowledge founded on facts is proved to be true by  the facts produced, is it not ?—Yes ; but there are such things as  coincidences.  852. Then, do you think that the fact of every country in  Europe having given evidence in the same direction, extending  over 100 years, is a coincidence ?—No, I do not say that; Isay  that a great many of those cases are coincidences.  853. But I am now taking a very special point, namely, that  when examined upon this identical question, every country in  Europe gives facts of precisely the same character before the  American Commission, and that all our scientific men give the  same ?—I should like to ask who the scientific men are.  854. Every man who has had to do with science as regards  smallpox at all; well nigh every man who has had a hospital  under his care ; every man who has had a large number of small  pox patients under his care ; take any evidence you please, any-  where, the proportion is as 17 to 47; then you say that rinderpest  and vaccination-pox are one and the same disease, vaccinia?  The Report of the Royal Cattle Plague Commission is my only  guide. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 27  855. Are the diseases like, when the bodies are opened and the  parties are examined, or are they like in symptoms, or is there any  resemblance whatever ?—I think you are speaking a little without  book. I can answer the question by saying, that I believe from  what I have read of this Report that they are alike, but if you ask  me all the symptoms of the cattle-plague, which are all depicted in  this book, there is not one of them that counts for anything in the  last Report of Dr. Williams.  856. I very respectfully asked whether there was the slightest  resemblance, either in the /0s/7:07 4em examinations, in the symp-  toms, in the progress of the diseases, or in any single thing by  which we are directed ?—I have no experience as to that.  857. You say that you believe, that though the inoculation of  one disease will not prevent another, s/a similibus curantur ;  have you ever heard that cowpox and smallpox are really one  and the same thing, and that numerous experiments have gone to  prove it, only that the smallpox passing through the cow is not so  severe when transferred to the human subject as smallpox directly  caught ?—I should think it very likely, upon the principle of  fermentation.  858. But if it should happen to be identically the same thing, so  that a man communicates it to a cow, and the cow is capable of  communicating a milder form of the same disease to a man, would  you be prepared then to say that vaccination was useless ?—I  sħould think then that it was likely enough that smallpox and  cowpox were the same thing.  859. Would not vaccination then very much destroy the ten-  dency to smallpox ?—It would upon the principle of sæta  similibus curantur.  860. Mr. F. Bright.) Have you ever been a believer in the  adyantage of vaccination ?— Y es.  861. When did you cease to believe in it?—When I began to  think more about it.  862. How long was that ?—I was vaccinated like other people,  and received it as a tradition from my father, that it was a security,  but when I found the number of failures ; and heard and thought  about that case of Jenner’s vaccination, and saw the present out-  break, for instance, I began very much to doubt its efficacy.  863. Did you give up your belief in vaccination because you saw  with your own eyes, and had knowledge in your own neighbour-  hood, of the failure of vaccination ?—I began to think about this  matter when I read Liebig’s work “ On Fermentation, Putrefaction,  and Decay,” translated by the honourable Member for the  University of Edinburgh.  864. Dr. Zyon Playfair.| I think, from what you have stated,  you attach far more importance to a well-ascertained fact than to  theory ?— Yes. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 865. You have stated that you knew of instances, or have heard  of instances, where a second attack of smallpox came after small  pox, have you not ?—TI think I quoted the report of the smallPox Hospital. :  866. This might be called, as you called some other things, post-  vaccinal smallpox ; you admit that there are such things as post-  smallpox smallpox ?—Quite so.  867. You quoted one instance, which you said you knew of  your own knowledge, where a person vaccinated by Dr. Jenner  had smallpox ; is that more surprising than the cases to which you  alluded, in which people, after they had had smallpox, again had  smallpox ?—I think not.  868. Then would you, from that single instance, or from a  number of such instances, deduce the argument that if there was  a general protection, exceptional non-protection was sufficient to  take away the advantages of the general protection ; and what  importance do you attach to that specific case of the child of your  friend which you do not attach to the cases which you mentioned  of the persons who have had smallpox afterwards getting small  pox ?—lI attach great importance to the cases vaccinated by Dr.  Jenner, as having been done by Dr. Jenner’s own hand.  869. Is there anything more extraordinary in those two cases or  half a dozen cases of persons vaccinated by Dr. Jenner having  afterwards received smallpox than there would be in the cases of  persons naturally attacked by smallpox getting it a second time,  and is post-vaccinal smallpox more extraordinary than post small  pox smallpox ?—No ; I should have thought that post-vaccinal  smallpox was less extraordinary than post smallpox smallpox.  870. Theńn what great importance do you attach to those cases?  —Their failure.  871. But are there not cases of smallpox not protecting men  from smallpox ?— There are.  872. Is it suprising that there are cases of vaccination acting in  the same way ?—No.  873. I want to know exactly how much you know of those cases  as facts ; how long was it after Dr. Jenner vaccinated the child  that the child had smallpox ; was it years, or months, or what  was it ?—TI cannot tell you ; I should say that it was early in youth ;  that is all I can say. I can merely judge by the age of the parties  and the date of Dr. Jenner’s operation.  874. Then will you give us the exact information which you  have as to that child who suffered from ulcers after being re-  vaccinated ?— That followed almost immediately.  875. Did you know the case personally ?—Y es.  876. You saw the child ?—Yes, I saw the child.  877. Wasitimmediately after the re-vaccination that it happened, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 29  or when ?—It was within a few days afterwards ; it was immediately  consequent upon it.  878. What was the age of the child ?—I should say it was nine  or ten years old. s  879. Was the child in good health ?—Perfect.  880. And were the parents in good health ?—The parents were  in good health ; and it was a case of re-vaccination which would  have tested the health of the child.  881. Was that in recent years ?—Perhaps within the last ro  years.  882. Is the medical man who attended that child alive ?—Y es.  883. Can you give us the name of the medical man who  attended the child ?—His name is Kirkman, and he lives at  Horndean, in my own neighbourhood.  884. Are you aware that I was one of the Royal Commissioners  on the cattle plague ?—I am.  885. Are you aware that the Commissioners made experiments  to find out whether smallpox and the cattle plague had any  connection with each other, and that they wholly failed in  establishing such connection ?—I am not; I only know what I  see in the Report.  886. You are aware that the experiment to which you alluded  was by one of the Commissioners, Mr. Ceely, and that you will  not find all through the reports any evidence that any other of the  Royal Commissioners entertained that view?—I do not know that.  I have studied those three reports with the accuracy which they  perhaps deserved ; but there was one thing in this third report  which struck me. I find it in these words: “The preparation of  this report has from its nature devolved mainly upon the medical  ‘ members of the Commission.” I thought the Commission sat as  a jury upon the matter, and they would search into the evidence  given by any experts, and not leave to the medical members of the  Commission the verdict.  887. Are you aware that all reports must be written by some-  body, and that they are always written, not by the whole body of  Commissioners, but by one or two members ?—I thought probably  sO.  888. Chairman.) You stated that you did not consider vac-  cination to be a protection against smallpox ; do you consider that  it is any protection in rendering smallpox, supposing that a  person takes it who has been vaccinated, less injurious or more in-  ocuous ?—I have said that I think it cannot have that effect ; but  my observation of late has led me to think that that idea was  over-estimated.  889. Supposing it to be over-estimated, how do you meet the  difficulty as to the cases being more fatal where people have not This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 30  been vaccinated, than where they have been vaccinated ?—I think  that until each case, and the circumstances in which the persons  are living are ascertained you can hardly state broadly that the  immunity has been in the proportion of vaccinated to the  unvaccinated.  89o. Still you must admit that there is a very great difference in  the per-centage of deaths between those who have been vaccinated  and those who are not vaccinated ?—I admit it ; and not only that,  but I admit that there is a great difference among those who catch  it. I take it that in Belgravia, you would find that a very small  proportion of the population catch the smallpox at all, and if they  have it, they have it very much lighter than they have it in  Clerkenwell.  891. For what reasons do they have it lighter ?—Because their  circumstances are such that they can afford to feed and to lodge  themselves properly, and to prevent all those, excesses which are  the results of poverty.  892. Is it your theory that the smallpox attacks a rich man in  a different way from that in which it attacks a poor man ?—In a  different degree.  893. Do you suppose that it is more fatal to one class than to  the other, owing to the different positions in which the persons  live ?—I do certainly.  894. Dr. Azewer.] Queen Mary the Second died of smallpox,  and she was well off ?—That was before my time. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms HANTS COUNTY LUNATIC ASYLUM.  HANTS MIDSUMMER SESSIONS, 1872.  The Midsummer Sessions for the county of Southampton com-  menced at the Castle of Winchester on Monday, July 1st. The  following magistrates were present :—  Lord Eversley, in the chair ; the Marquis of Winchester ; the  Marquis of Cholmondeley ; the Earl of Carnarvon ; Lord Henry  Scott, M.P. ; Sir W. Heathcote; the Right Hon. W. Cowper-  Temple, M.P.; G. Sclater-Booth, Esq., M.P.; W. W. B. Beach,  Esq., M.P ; the Hons. J. J. Carnegie, H. D. Curzon, J. T. Dutton,  and S. J. G. Calthorpe ; Sir J. C. Jervoise, Sir H. P. Gordon, Sir  N. Rycroft ; Melville Portal, T. J. P. Marx, W. H. Kingsmill,  T. Leach, H. J. Mulcock, R. E. Farnall, W. C. D. Esdaile, T.  Best, jun., W. W. Farr, G. E. Eyre, W. Everitt, W. B. Smith,  W. P. W. Freeman, W. L. Shedden, T. M. Lewin, W. Wickham,  R. Stevens, W. Peacock, T. Fitzroy, T. Bradshaw, L. Sclater,  J. Carpenter-Garnier, G. Atherley, B. W. Carter, F. T. Lovell, W.  W. Rooke, J. G. Wood, M. G. Knight, W. A. Glynm, C. E.  Harris, C. Brett, W. T. Greenie, F. A. Lushington, R. P.  Fitzgerald, S. MacNaghten, and W. W. Bulpett, Esqrs. ; Admiral  Coote, Captain R. Purvis, Captain R. Mansell, General H. P.  Raymond, Captain E. Field; Dr. Hitchcock ; and the Revs. J. T.  Maine and T. Best.  Sir J. C. JERvOISE moved the following resolution :—  “That, while recognising the interest „in the welfare of the  patients, and the zeal displayed by the Superintendent of the  Hants County Lunatic Asylum, this court cannot but consider  that the re-vaccination of a large number of patients of each  sex was a measure calculated to endanger their health, while the  order to stop the visits to patients of those friends residing in  infected districts was harsh and unnecessary.”  In proposing the resolution, he said, it was clear he could en-  tertain no malice towards any of the parties involved in what some  might consider this charge. He was not acquainted with the  majority of the committee of visitors ; nor did he know the super-  intendent, whose name he had not uttered, but whose office was  mentioned. Nor did he move it in a spirit of hostility, because he  believed that the committee and the superintendent had acted ac This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 32  cording to law, their duty, and public opinion. (Hear, hear.) But  public opinion did not regulate affairs of science. The duty of a  magistrate was something more than that of bare obedience and  administration of the law. It required a conscience, and a certain  amount of intelligence and reason. If they were simply to admin-  ister the law as it came down, without any higher consideration,  the patients in the Lunatic Asylum would be as capable of  administering it as the visitors themselves. (A laugh.) Then he  came to the law itself. There could be no doubt that the sanitary  laws of the country were not exempt.from those failings which  were common to all laws. Summum jus, summa injuria. It was  the implicit administration of the law that converted the Bench  into an office for the registration of convictions, and the police, —  of which this county was so justly proud,—into the familiars of a  tyrannical inquisition. He would not enter into the details of the  pathology of smallpox, or the prophylaxis of vaccination, or dis-  cuss the various stages of infection, which must be familiar to  those who had had to discuss the plague among cattle as well as  human beings, the periods of “ žzvaston, incubation, eruption, desit-  cation, and desguamation ;” but he thought he might say, without  fear of refutation, if not of contradiction, that there never had been  so much vaccination and never so much smallpox in Great  Britain and Ireland and on the Continent, as there had been dur-  ing the last three years ; and that there had never been so many  fatal cases. Never was there a proverb more worthy of acceptation,  than that “ Truth is the daughter of Time, and not of Authority ;”  and never was the adage more forcibly illustrated, than in the case  of vaccination. In 1802, Jenner petitioned Parliament for a re-  ward, and affirmed his belief that the añnihilation of smallpox  must be the result of his discovery. In 1807, the Royal College  of Physicians reported that the security derived from vaccination  was, if not perfect, as nearly perfect as could be expected from any  human discovery. The same year the House of Commons voted  an additional grant of £20,000 to Dr. Jenner, it having alrêady  granted £10,000, a motion by the bearer of the honoured name  of Lefevre, to take more time to consider the report of the College of  Physicians, being rejected by 6o to 47. Time had brought forth  Truth ; while the authority of the College of Physicians was barren  at this very hour. Now he came to the order he found in this re-  port of the Hants Lunatic Asylum, and to his first proposition—  that the health of the patients was put in jeopardy by their re-vac-  cination. It was well known that anything like unnecessary  restraint ; anything that would tend to lower the system, or that  would eause anything like a revulsion of feeling or circulation, was  not desirable among the patients of an asylum. If, from some ex-  traordinary circumstance, there were a guarantee that smallpox  would enter the asylum, if vaccination were not adopted, or that it This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 33  would be kept out if it were, great risks might be incurred; but  were he to go into statistics, he thought he could show how very  little it tended to moderate smallpox. These results were to be  expected from a system of unnecessary restraint, and re-vaccination  in a lunatic asylum was of necessity compulsory. But there was a  physical evil. The hon. baronet read extracts from a digest of the  evidence before the Vaccination Committee of the House of Com-  mons to show the physical consequences of vaccination—erysipelas,  &c. Erysipelas, according to the sixth report of the medical  officer of the Privy Council, “ traumatic and non-traumatic is a true  zymotic disease.” He had marked in Digest of Evidence taken  before the Vaccination Committee of last year, before which he  had the honour of being examined, passages where the word  Erysipelas appeared. 1. Dr. Collins says, “ Erysipelas is by no  means uncommon after vaccination.” <2. Dr. Pearce quotes Jen-  ner, who stated that, “no vaccination was protective that did not  produce erysipelas,” and thousands die of erysipelas in the first  year of life. 3. His own evidence furnished the case of a friend  who, having been re-vaccinated, had erysipelas. 4. Dr. Garth  Wilkinson says, “ his own coachman’s child took erysipelas concur-  rently with vaccination, and died.” s. Mr. Emery’s child died of  “ erysipelas as certified by the vaccinator,” the Registrar-General’s  return being “ Erysipelas caused by vaccination.” 6. Mr. Simon  says, “ An occasional death within seventy years has arisen from  the contagion of erysipelas caught by the vaccinated arm.” 7.  He passed over the cases of leprosy “where vaccination seemed  to be the only explanation.” 8. Mr. Marson “has seen erysipelas  follow occasionlly ; it may follow by the child being done at an un-  lucky. time. Knew a practitioner who had several severe cases of  erysipelas produced by vaccination.” 9. Dr. Gull says, “barring  the rare possibility of erysipelas,” &c., &c., “is not aware of any  risks or damages from vaccination ; knows that erysipelas has fol-  lowed vaccination, sometimes fatally.” But the Superintendent  himself had stated that there was a strong tendency of the sores  on the Patients assuming an erysipelatous character. He came  next to his second proposition that “the order to stop the visits to  the patients of those friends residing in infected districts was harsh  and unnecessary.” The hon. baronet next quoted from the “ Life  of Charles Lamb,” whose sister had stabbed her bed-ridden mother  to the heart, and who was placed in confinement, but released on  condition that she should return to the asylum when a fit of lunacy  approached. The brother and sister might have been seen, bathed  in tears, going hand-in-hand to the asylum. The court might  fancy what would have occurred if an order had gone forth to  stop the visits of the brother, because he happened to live in an  had introduced a word into his resolution on which he must say This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 34  infected district. And an infected district generally meant a poor  district—perhaps St. George’s-in-the-East, not St. George’s in the  west. Would they deprive the patients of the very means by  which tone might be restored to those sweet bells that had been  jangling out of tune? More frequent visits of friends had been  recommended. He read from the First Report of the Local  Government Board—Caterham and Leavesden asylums—“ Two  points have engaged the attention of the Board, and are still  . under consideration. The first is, that greater facilities should be  given for the visitation of the patients by their friends. With  regard to the first point, application has already been made to the  railway companies concerned to grant tickets to the friends of  inmates at a reduced price, This has been conceded by one of  the companies.” The City of London Lunatic Asylum Annual  Report said, “ The inmates have been spared from any epidemic  visitation, though, in the summer, smallpox prevailed to an  alarming degree on all sides of the building ;” and why should it  have been thought necessary at this asylum to stop them ?  Moreover, he would like to know what was meant by an infected  district, from which visits would be prohibited. Was Ryde or the  Isle of Wight an infected district? ‘The medical officer of health  of that district escapéd for forty years, through all the visitations  of infectious diseases. He (Sir J. C. Jervoise) had no diploma,  but he had had nearly forty years’ experience among the poor of  his union as ex-officio guardian. They had the smallest union in  England, but they had to provide for the largest number of  tramps in England (in proportion), those between Portsmouth and  Petersfield. The place in which, formerly, they were lodged was  of itself sufficient to breed a pestilence, but not bad enough to  communicate one by infection. In all that time they had only  had three cases of so-called infectious disease—two of scarlet fever  (the cases of a mother and daughter)—but there was no com-  munication of disorder, and one case of smallpox. Latterly,  they had received twenty tramps a night, while their own poor  only averaged nineteen. ‘Then, was Portsmouth an infected  district? Was Gosport? (A voice: No.) He had the reports  of the Registrar-General, if a voucher were required. Was  Southampton? Were none of the seamen from the boats to  visit their relatives, and perhaps drive away the cause of the  disorder—the wolf at the door. Was Winchester an infected  district? They had there a “model institution,” the gaol. It  would be bitter irony if he suggested that visitors in handcuffs  ought not to go there, because they came from infected districts ;  . but that was not a subject for jesting. There was another “model  house ” of detention besides the prison—the Infirmary. Among  the visitors to the asylum were a number of magistrates who were  supporters, and some of them governors, of the Infirmary. One This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 35  of those governors was Sir William Heathcote, who was present  that day ; and those who came after the present race of mag-  istrates will have the portrait of the hon. baronet as a record of  the esteem in which he was held by them, and (he read from a  circular suggesting that the portrait of Sir William Heathcote  should be placed in the room where the civil business of the  county is, for the time being, conducted) “of the ability,  unwearied attention, and sound judgment which he has for so  many years brought to bear upon the conduct of business, and by  which he has so largely contributed to the success of almost every  public undertaking in the county ;” and among the many noble  deeds of the right hon. baroneť’s life, there were none, he believed,  on which he would look with greater satisfaction than the  institution of “ Nightingale nurses” at this hospital. In ex-  planation of the term “ Nightingale nurses,” Sir J. C. Jervoise  read an extract from Miss Nightingale’s “Notes on Nursing,”  in which that lady had asserted that, “True nursing ignores  infection, except to prevent it. Cleanliness and fresh air from  open windows, with unremitting attention to the patient, are the  only: defence a true nurse either asks or needs. Wise and humane  management of the patient is the best safeguard against infection.  Does not the popular idea of ‘infection’ involve that people  should take greater care of themselves than of the patient?” If  that were so, he should be surprised to find members of the court  blowing hot on the question at the asylum at Fareham, and cold  on the same question at the Infirmary at Winchester. In a  passage in Sir Henry Hollanď’s life, he saw it stated, “ Science is  harsh in its demand for realities. It has no sympathy with the  romance of human life, still less with its superstitions ;” and he  (Sir J. C. Jervoise) had no hesitation, on the authority of one of  the most beneficent spirits of which any country could boast, in  denouncing this theory of infection as a superstition. He had  asked nobody to second the resolution. If any member agreed  with his views, he would second it; if he desired discussion, he  would second it zo forza ; if he thought the question was trivial,  and that it could be put by to a more convenient season, he  would not second it, and the motion would fall still-born. But he  (Sir J. C. Jervoise) had performed what he believed was an  imperative duty ; and whatever was the result, he thanked the  court for having allowed him to make the statement.  Mr. SCLATER-BOOTH, M.P., said he would second the resolution,  in order that he might say a word in reply. He would not com-  ment on his hon. friend’s theory of infection, because he admitted  that public opinion was against him ; and he assumed the court  would hold that the committee of visitors and the superintendent  had done no more than their duty in taking every possible  precaution against smallpox. (Hear, hear.) But his hon. friend This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 36  a word. His hon. friend said the order was “harsh.” Ifhis hon.  friend did not know Dr. Manley, he must know many gentlemen  who did; and to apply the term “harsh” to any act of the  superintendent of the asylum, or to the regulations by which the  welfare of the inmates was consulted, was an application of a  term altogether unwarrantable (hear, hear.) He might just inform  his hon. friend that the number of persons restricted from visiting  their friends was only two. A third application, by a person  living in an infected district, was made under urgent circumstances,  and was acceded to. Atthe time the order was issued, the streets  of Gosport were patrolled by soldiers to prevent men from going  into infected districts. The vaccination of the patients, too, was  not only under the authority of the visitors, but by the instructions  of the Commissioners of Lunacy, whose authority on medical  matters was, with the superintendent, paramount, and one with  which the visiting justices would not have thought it their duty to  interfere. With regard to the visits of people from other districts,  there had been no restrictions. During the last five years, in  round numbers, there had been 1500 patients in the asylum.  One-third had received no visits whatever, nor had any desire  been manifested to pay them. With regard to the remainder, in  the year 1870, when no restriction prevailed, 893 visits were paid  by the friends ; while in 1871, the year in which these restrictions  were ordered, 920 visits were made; so that really there had  been no restriction whatever. Nor were they aware of any com-  plaint of cruelty. In fact, the order was issued in mercy and  kindness. His hon. friend had assumed that the sores arising  from the vaccination had been of an erysipelatous character.  Out of the 250 cases of vaccination, there was not one in which  there had been any injury ; and the statement in the report really  had reference to sores produced by other disorders. He did not  know whether the Hon. Baronet intended this as a vote of censure  on the visitors or on the superintendent. He said he gave the  visitors credit for discharging their duty, for having acted in  accordance with public opinion, and legally. Therefore, he  presumed his remarks applied more to the superintendent of the  asylum. All he could say was, that the smallpox was very  prevalent and very close to the asylum. ‘The superintendent was  anxious that the disease should not be introduced into the asylum ;  and the visitors were unanimously of opinion that he had acted in  discharge of his duty. But whatever the responsibility, the  visitors shared it with the superintendent.  Sir J. C. JERVOISE said he had no desire to impute harshness or  * hardness of heart to any one; but he merely denounced this  theory of infection as superstition.  The motion was then withdrawn. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 17:32:21 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms