VACCINATION TRACTS   PREFACE AND SUPPLEMENT   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1879    PREFACE AND SUPPLEMENT.  These Vaccination Tracts were undertaken to gather up the heads of a considerable literature on Vaccination, scattered in pamphlets, newspapers, and other periodicals, and often perishing by reason of its ephemeral form. It was felt that in the contest against Vaccination, and in the shorter contest against Compulsory Vaccination, valuable facts and reasons were lost for want of an enduring record ; and to prevent this waste of resources was the primary object of the following series.  On looking over the materials whictf^ave supplied our pages, including the latest contributions to Vaccination literature, scarcely anything of importance bearing upon the question seems to have been omitted in the present survey.  Our adversaries have laid down their arms on some of the main points in dispute; although they have maintained the national characteristic, of not knowing when they are beaten. Conspicuous in this glory of victorious defeat stands the venerable Sir Thomas Watson, Bart., who, disarmed on the field, and without one available lancet   4 Sir Thomas Watson abandons Vaccination.  of the old kind in his pocket-case, brandishes the vaccinating lancets of the future as if they were bodily weapons of the same substance as those which carried the prestige and were surmounted by the parliamentary flag of him who is still called for a time the " immortal Jenner."  Faithful to our business of Recorders, we here cite some things which Sir Thomas Watson says in his very simple article on " Smallpox and Compulsory  vaccination tion" in the Nineteenth Century for June 1878 : -  "The whole human race ... is indebted to Dr. Jenner's happy discovery and acute researches for an unspeakable boon and blessing. . . . Where vaccination is, there the contagion of smallpox need never come. . . . The early vaccination of children should be made, by force of law, compulsory upon their parents or guardians.  " But upon this fair and priceless charter of safety to humanity there has fallen an ugly blot. On the first introduction of vaccination it was alleged, among other futile and absurd grounds, that it was unnatural and even impious to engraft upon a Christian the diseases of a brute. It is too certain, however, that one objection really formidable does exist - that the operation may, in some few instances, impart to the subject of it the poison of a hateful and destructive disease, peculiar to the human species, and the fruit and Nemesis of its vices. Probably this disaster might be averted if, in vaccinating,   Sir Thomas Watson abandons Vaccination. 5  care were scrupulously taken to insert nothing but the pure lymph of the vaccine vesicle, to prevent the blood or any of the elements of the blood of the child from whom*the lymph is taken from mingling with it ; but unhappily we cannot count upon this scrupulous care being always exercised.  " On this distasteful subject I shall simply appeal to the printed testimony of Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, than whom we have not among us a more able and accom- plished pathologist. Such facts as he has demonstrated constitute the only rational excuse for objecting to compulsory vaccination.  " I can readily sympathise with, and even applaud, a father who, with the presumed dread or misgiving in his mind, is willing to submit to multiplied judicial penalties rather than expose his child to the risk of an infection so ghastly.  " It is chiefly in the hope of suggesting a deliverance from this opprobrium to our nation, and perhaps also from the rhetoric with which our House of Commons is annually vexed on the subject of compulsory vaccination, that I have undertaken the present essay."  Considering that the rhetoric alluded to has reason in it, Sir Thomas Watson must be grateful to that rhetoric hitherto for pleading the same cause which he now espouses so ardently ; namely, the abolition of the whole   6 The Medical Case for a New Trial.  present matter and system of what is practised as Jennerian Vaccination. When that abolition, which he is helping, is accomplished, the annual rhetoric ceases as a matter of course. r  But how does the case stand? The medical corpora- tion, of which Sir Thomas Watson is a representative man, has held for a generation that no danger of the propagation of the venereal disease lay in vaccination. The anti-vaccinators during the same period affirmed, from facts, that the danger existed, and that venereal infection was not infrequent. A time comes when Sir Thomas, and the medical corporation, are converted to the views of the anti-vaccinators, and confess that venereal infection is an " ugly blot " upon the fair fame of vaccination. And what position do the doctors now occupy as authorities, and promoters of future practice and legislation, in the case ? They are the last men to learn the truth, and have struggled against that truth with obdurate minds. Are they now the people in anything they propose to be the saviours of  vaccination tion?  It is no wild prophecy to affirm, that the discovery that the vaccine lymph carries the venereal disease about in the blood of the human family is the thick end of the wedge, and precedes by only a few years the admission by the medical corporation that all kinds of diseases and   The Medical Case for a JVeza Trial. 7  bad heredities are carried into the system by the same means : that the " ugly blot " extends from head to foot, and that vaccination is black all over with crimes against - health and soundness. This is what the anti- vaccinators assert now, and have asserted all along ; and disease and death, perfectly substantiated, are their witnesses. (See Tract No. V.)  Now, what likelihood is there that persons so blind for a generation or two to facts obvious enough to unlearned fathers and mothers, should see clearly the material or statistical facts or figures that belong to the relations of vaccination to smallpox? Demonstrated blindness, blindness residing in and spreading from the will, what we may call amaurosis of self-ititerest and self-love, especially corporate amaurosis of self love, runs through the capacity of seeing the whole subject when such blindness pertains to one part. It is keenly infectious in the mental vision, and knows with unerring instinct every particular which it does not choose to see. The inference is strong, that the medical edifices, reasons, facts and figures about vaccination, and the good of it, are fallacies animated by fancies, and springing directly from the same source as the blindness itself. They are the children of a corrupt medical will ensconced in parliamentary security, and with no understanding at hand to correct it.  It would be easy to go seriatim through Sir Thomas   8 Smallpox speaks.  Watson's paper, and to show that he is blind throughout ; but one instance shall suffice. " Where vaccination is, there the contagion of smallpox need never come." This is what his amaurosis says. The following is the day- light of the actual world which he does not see : -  "Vaccination was made compulsory by an Act of Parlia- ment in the year 1853 and in 1867 ; again still more stringently in 187 1. Since 1853 we have had three epidemics of smallpox, each being more severe than the one preceding.  Date. Deaths from Smallpox.  1st. 1857-58-59 . . . 14,244  2nd. 1863-64-65 . . . 20,059  3rd. 1870-71-72 . . . 44,840  Increase of population from 1st to 2nd  epidemic . . . . 7 per cent.  Increase of smallpox in the same period 50 per cent.  Increase of population from 2nd to 3rd  epidemic . . . 10 per cent.  Increase of smallpox in the same period 120 per cent.  Deaths from smallpox in the first ten years after the enforcement of vaccination - 1854 to 1863 .... 33"S I 5  In the second ten years- 1864 to 1873 . 7°>45 8 "   (See Tract No. II.)   A New Juggle proposed by the Doctors. 9  " Where vaccination is, there the contagion of smallpox- need never come." There is something pitiful in the words need never come : as though Sir Thomas should say, '*Good, kind, dear Smallpox, spare our beloved Vaccination, the darling of our Corporations, the glory of Medicine, that in which she is Godlike ! thou hast prey enough among the unvaccinated peoples ; leave protected Britons alone." But Smallpox speaks in eloquent numbers, " Your Vaccination is no innocent, but my own daughter. Vaccination is me, my second self; and wherever Vaccin-ation comes, I am." (See Tract No. XII., where the parentage of nearly all the present vaccination from inoculated smallpox is fully proved.)  Sir Thomas Watson blames the present vaccination as risking the ghastly infection of the venereal disease, and speaks of it in this light as an "opprobrium to our nation : " he does this with the distinct purpose of super- seding arm-to-arm vaccination entirely, and substituting for it vaccination from the calf direct.  "A healthy and well-nourished calf," says he, "about three months' old, is hired from a butcher, and vaccinated in the usual way, on its shaved abdomen, in about sixty places. Upon the punctures thus made vesicles form, as from ordinary vaccination in the human body. These vesicles run their due course, and the vaccine virus which they contain is ripe and fit for use about the fifth or   to The Unknown Calf that is none the Worse.  sixth day of that course- for use, namely, from the living animal in direct vaccination, and for collection in a fluid state into tubes, or in a dry state on ivory points, for the purpose of vaccination which is indirect. After 'seven days the calf is returned to the butcher, none the worse for what has happened."  This proceeding is orthodox medicine in the nine- teenth century. The intelligence of that medicine is signalized in the assertion that the calf, returned to the butcher, is "none the worse for what has happened." But clearly it is the worse, and what has happened no physiologist can know without experience, and that experience must extend over the lifetime of the animal so treated, and be gathered from many cases. " None the worse " is a light phrase, and reminds the reader of the time not many years since when all children were said to be " none the worse " for vaccination, because observation had not then authoritatively connected the venereal disease with the process. In the case of the calf, however, the physiologist hands it over to the butcher for our veal j and dead calves tell no tales. (See on this subject Tract No. XII. on the New Imposture of Calf Lymph.)  Of course if the present vaccination were a " priceless boon" minus only its occasional infection with the venereal disease, there would be ground for seeking a   Dr. Cotistantiiie Hering abjures Vaccination. 1 1  successor to it, now that the great orthodox authorities wish to have it dead and buried ; but inasmuch as vacci- nation, for its avowed object, is a demonstrated failure from every point of view, the British people, to whom we appeal, must continue their efforts to destroy any and every similar process, and to coerce the State to forbid blood-poisoning for the future.  Almost simultaneously with Sir Thomas Watson's denunciation of the current vaccination, Dr. Constantine Hering, the Father of the Homoeopathic School of America, came forward in an English newspaper, and characterized all vaccination as a " poisoning of the blood." " In Jennerian vaccination," he says, " there is the production of a real contagious disease, acting by zymosis or fermentation in the blood, thus endangering the organism, and resulting only in making the system less liable to, not proof against, the disease.  " Attention must likewise be called to the possibility of inoculating other diseases, such as itch, scrofula, leprosy, phthisis, syphilis, etc., and thus producing a complication of trouble difficult to be overcome.  "While the progress of our school has led us to a much more certain preventive, and also to an easy and certain and safe cure, the old school lost sight of Jenner altogether, and entirely forgot that the cows had also other diseases of the udder; and they lost sight of the only true origin of the   1 2 Dr. Constantine Hering abjures Vaccination.  true preventive cowpox, according to Jenner, and later Schonlein, in a peculiar disease of the horse's feet, generally mistaken, and one not known to any of the vaccinating doctors. They went on vaccinatirfg from arm to arm ; and finally by the scabs, which often con- tained rotten and putrified animal matter.  " If it had been a poisoning even with the very best real ¦cowpox, it now became a poisoning of nearly all children with the most horrible diseases ; many even were murdered, and an infinite number poisoned for life.  " And smallpox epidemics appeared under the title of varioloid. It is, no doubt, an intolerable tyranny to compel vaccination by law. We are glad to be able to quote the words of a real statesman, the Count of Zedtwitz, who writes in a popular journal on Homoeopathy : ' Whether vaccination be useful or injurious, the subject of conten- tion between men of science has very little to do with the question of compulsion. This can only be determined by the convictions of the individual, which should be as inviolable in the domain of medicine as in that of religion or politics ; and coercion in this direction, which amounts to producing an artificial disease by bodily injury, can indeed be called nothing less than tyranny.' "-From a letter of Dr. Constantine Bering on Vaccination, published by W. Young.  We have then, in Sir Thomas Watson and Dr.   P. A. Taylor, M. P., abandons Compulsory Vaccination. 13  Constantine Hering, heads of the two leading schools of medicine, who aid and abet our endeavours to destroy the practice of vaccination.  O  In counting the gains to our cause, we may also mention the distinct adhesion of Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., who has at length declared against compulsory vaccination. In his speech in Parliament, April 7th, 1879, he says : -  "I was a member of the Committee of 1871 which considered the subject of vaccination. Since that time my attention has been directed to the subject, in con- sequence of what I believe to be the injustice and the impropriety of compulsory vaccination, and from the statistics and other information which I have since that time been able to obtain, my opinion has been so far modified with regard to vaccination that I could not now put my name to the report of the Committee, which at the time was unanimously agreed to. The objection I have is to compulsory vaccination ; my hon. friends round me, and my hon. friend the member for the county of Galway (Air. Mitchell Henry), boast of the enthusi- astic adherence of the Irish people to vaccination. The obvious answer to that boast seems to me to be, that if they so willingly accept it there is no need for pressing upon them this terrible compulsion - for terrible it is to   14 P. A. Taylor, M.P., abandons Compulsory Vaccination.  those who object to it. In my opinion every element which could justify the compulsory enforce7>ient of vaccination, and could justify the State in standing between parents and the health of their children, is wanting in the present con- dition of the science and the statistics of vaccination. At one time and another there has been a good deal of opinion expressed in this House as to the views of the anti-vaccination party, and much expression of disgust at their views, and repudiation of their conduct in opposing the vaccination of their children. They have been talked of as prejudiced fools, as traders in disease, and as mere obstinate wrong-headed persons standing be- tween the self-evident good and advantage of their children and the benevolence of the State. Perhaps I may be allowed to say that that seems to be an altogether wrong way of putting it. We cannot express the general opinion on the question of vaccination with- out taking into consideration what is undoubtedly the fact, that there does exist in the country a great amount of honest opposition to the principle of vaccination. I have seen dozens and scores of persons who tell me that they honestly believe that their children had died from vaccination, and who had told me all that had happened, with every circumstance and detail. They have told me how they took perfectly healthy children to be vaccinated, how an incision was made in the arm, how   P. A. Taylor, M.P., abandons Compulsory Vaccination. 15  in the course of a few days a sore appeared there, how it spread on the arm, and from thence all over the body, and how, finally, the children died in agony. Now they are wrong in their opinions, if you please, but they would be utterly heartless and unfeeling if, holding the opinion that vaccination is dangerous, they were to suffer their children to undergo vaccination. / maintain that all the elements justifying compulsion on the part of the State are wanting in this instance of vaccination. In the first place, there is not that certainty in the results which was boasted of by Jenner, and believed in as the fact at that time. During his lifetime vaccination was believed to be an absolute cure and specific for smallpox. It was said that children who had been vaccinated were subse- quently inoculated, or attempted to be inoculated, with smallpox, and that the attempt entirely failed, thus proving the excellence of vaccination. But if that was true then, it is most clearly not true now, for whenever there is an epidemic of smallpox scores and hundreds of children die of smallpox, and are acknowledged to have died of smallpox, who had .previously been vaccinated. It must be remembered also that the figures put before us by the Government are utterly unreliable, unreliable partly because it is acknow- ledged by medical men to be impossible when children have died of smallpox to tell afterwards whether they   1 6 P. A. Taylor, M. P., abaiidons Compulsory Vaccination.  have been vaccinated or not, and unreliable also because it is a principle with medical men not to return children who have died from the effects of vaccination as havine so died. It has been stated by medical men that they do not like to cast a slur upon the system, and therefore they do not return deaths by vaccination, even where they do occur. There was a case at Leeds the other day where the child died from vaccination, and the surgeon inserted that as the cause of death in his certifi- cate. But the coroner, who was also a medical man, was one of those who did not like to cast a slur upon the system, and opposed that course. He said vaccination was not a death known to the law, and accordingly the child was returned as having died from another cause. In fact, the poor child had committed a legal offence in venturing to die under such circumstances. Then, again, since vaccination has been made absolutely compulsory in this country, deaths of smallpox had actually increased. (Hear, hear.) Since the year 1853 there had been an increase in the percentage of deaths. Then there is Germany, the best vaccinated country in the world. There the deaths from smallpox in the last epidemic were something frightful. All these are ample evidences to show that there is ground for the presumption, and for the doubt, whether it is wise to vaccinate their children. Far more than this, it is no longer held that it is absolutely   P. A. Taylor, M.P., abandons Compulsory Vaccination. 1 7  safe to vaccinate children, as was stated to us when the Committee sat in 187 1. During the first part of the time that the Committee sat the doctors who were called before us declared it to be impossible that syphilis and other diseases could be communicated by inocula- tion, while it was actually proved to demonstration before we finished our sittings that thirteen cases of syphilis had arisen from one case of vaccination alone. (Hear, hear.) Indeed, that fact is now notorious all over Europe. Not so very long ago that famous physician, Dr. Ricord, declared that if it could be shown in any one case that syphilis was the result of vaccination, vaccination must cease to be practised, because it would be perfectly impossible to make sure that the child from whom the lymph was taken was safe. I do not think it is going too far to say that where there is risk on the one hand, and this chance of syphilis and other horrible diseases on the other, it is abominable tyranny for the State to step in, to stand between the parent and the child, and to say that the child shall incur the risk of syphilis rather than incur the risk of catching smallpox. Then at the very least the State is in this dilemma. Either vaccination is a certain prophylactic, and then you don't need com- pulsion, because those only run a risk who neglect the operation, or it is not at all certain, and then you have no right to enforce it on parents."   1 8 The Dublin Local Government Board  In Tract No. XII., which treats of the sources of the present supply of lymph, documentary evidence was given that nearly all the lymph now in use is smallpox matter, first inoculated from human smallpox into the cow, and then taken from the cow under the name of vaccine, the inoculation law being broken in presumably every case of vaccination.  The Local Government Board of Dublin, selecting a case in which it was proposed to raise a fresh stock of lymph by inoculation of a calf, has made an important declaration on this subject; a declaration which ought to condemn all the lymph at present in use to immediate withdrawal. We quote the case at length from the National Anti-compulsory Vaccination Reporter : -  " An important letter appeared from the Local Govern- ment Board, and was read at the Board of Guardians here to-day, relative to the vaccination of calves for pro- curing lymph. At the last meeting of the Guardians a medical gentleman suggested to the Board the advisa- bility of procuring a calf in order to have it inocu- lated for the supply of lymph. The suggestion was unanimously approved of by the Board, and a calf ordered to be procured; . . . one of the Guardians offered a calf for the purpose, which was accepted. On the minutes going before the Local Government Board, they dissented from the medical opinion, and to-day   denounces Variolous Vaccination. 19  the following letter was read at a very large meeting of the Board : -  " ' Local Government Board, • Dublin, 10th Feb. 1879.  " ' The Local Government Board of Ireland acknow- ledge the receipt of minutes of proceedings of the Board of Guardians of the Galway Union on the 7th inst., from which it appears that a suggestion was made by a member of the Board that a healthy calf be procured for inocula- tion, in order that a full supply of lymph be obtained for the Union ; and another member having intimated his willingness to give a calf for the purpose, the Guardians passed a resolution accepting this offer, and directing the medical officers to see the animal inoculated. In reference thereto, the Local Government Board desire to observe that it is not clear from this resolution whether the proposal is to inoculate the calf with  smallpox  virus, or with vaccine lymph obtained from a human subject; but in neither case can the Local Government Board approve of the resolution adopted by the Guardians. Smallpox virus taken from a calf would communicate that disease to a human subject, and be thereby a fertile source of propagating the disease, and would moreover render the operator liable to prosecution under the fourth section of the 31 and 32 Vict. cap. 87. If the proposition were to vaccinate a calf with lymph   20 The Dublin Local Government Board  obtained from a human subject, the Board have to state it has long since been ascertained that the animal lymph for vaccination purposes must, in the first instance, be obtained from a cow in which the disease has spontane- ously arisen, and that vaccination performed with lymph taken from a cow which had been vaccinated with human lymph is not reliable. The Local Government Board therefore lose no time in cautioning the medical officers against either of the practices referred to, as the Guardians, no doubt, acted in ignorance of the consequences when they passed the resolution directing their medical officers to act on the suggestion made. - By order of the Board,  '"B. Banks, Secretary.  - Daily Express, Feb. 15th.'  " Probably nothing issued from official sources in late years is calculated to deal a more fatal blow at the whole system than this distinct repudiation on the part of the Government, of the 'lymph' with which the public health has been ruined for so long. Surely, now that the tardy confession has been made, that matter procured in the identical way in which Ceely and Badcock admittedly procured it for the Government - viz. by inoculating a calf or cow with smallpox virus - would 'become a fertile source of propagati?ig the disease' of smallpox, we might look for an immediate order to have the circulation of   denounces Variolous Vaccination. 21  all the matter in daily use by the public vaccinators per- emptorily recalled.  " Nothing less than the immediate withdrawal of all the vaccine - so called - now in use will suffice to exempt the Government from the direct and just charge of wilfully allowing the smallpox to be given wholesale to the people in order to save a humiliation to the medical profession." - From the Gahvay Correspondent of the Dublin Daily Express, communicated by Fras. Davis, jun., Enniscorthy, Feb. 20, 1879.  It is fair to expect that the action of the Dublin Local Government Board will be followed up by similar action of the Local Government Board of London ; which will have the effect, not only of placing a ban upon the whole of the vaccination lymph now in use, confessedly got, as it is, by inoculating cows with smallpox and then communicating smallpox virus called vaccine from human arm to arm ; - but also of putting into severe inquisition the pretended calf-lymph of Dr. Wyld and his coad- jutors; and of stopping their process until each calf which they inoculate is proved to have matter of the lineage of spontaneous cowpox; say rather, until everysuch calf is proved to have spontaneous cowpox. Each point or lancet also issued by these vitulators must have a Local Government Board in-vaccinetur upon it, stamped during its taking from the legalized calf. This follows in con-   22 Sir James Paget on the Permanent Poisonous  sistency from the action of the Dublin Board. A permanent commission sitting in every calf-place, and inspecting every act and particular of lymph-taking, is the means which meets the case.   The history of medicine, rife in delusions, which compress each other in grotesque succession from the earliest ages to the present time, supplies no instance comparable to the absurdity of vaccination. In many ways medicine has been growing towards common sense, but into this inveterate and now political question all the stupidity, blindness, and recklessness of the medical ages seem to be gathered. Of this our Tracts treat abundantly ; but a final word about it is in place here.  What can the medical mind be thinking of when it loses recollection of the plain physiological fact, that to vaccinate the whole of Great Britain, so as powerfully to impress with a force ever present against smallpox (so the medical view is) the bodies of us all, is to alter us materially, and to sow the seeds of future crises in the human frame. Sir James Paget, Surgeon Extraordinary to Her Majesty, says : -  "The progress of the vaccine or variolous infection of the blood shows us that a permanent morbid condition of that fluid is established by the action of these specific   Effects of Vaccine or Variolous Infection. 23  poisons on it ; and although this condition may, so far at least as it protects the individual from any further attack of the same disease, be regarded as exercising a beneficial influence upon the economy, yet it is not the less to be looked upon as a morbid state. In forming an estinate of the persistent changes produced in the blood by this and similar infectious diseases, we must not lose sigh: of the influence which the tissues, themselves altered ly the inoculation, exercise upon the blood ; they will necessarily react upon it, so as to assist materially in preserving a permanent morbid (though beneficial condition." - Lectures 011 Inflammation, 1863.  Now wiat an amazing and almost incredible thing it is that wrh this fact perceived by physiologists there should nol be a long outlook for the harvests of disease of which tiis vaccination is the sowing. A new morbid life is given to the whole frame, - if you like, a morbid life powernl in its relation to smallpox; but is it possible that that norbid life should not of itself, whatever else it does, evilve morbid states ? And as the whole body is constitutonally tainted by it, must not a wise pathology look all though the lives of the vaccinated for the regular and orders consequences of this impressed force. The conservation of forces is true of the human body. An infmitesimil of venereal pus will reach its really bony fingers frcn the first chancre on a young man to the   24 Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary  destroyed throat and nose of his middle age, and to the chancred bones of his head and limbs in his old age : it will come out in his fatuous and leering mind as his physical ruin works on. You do not pronounce h:m free in a week or a month when his chancre is cured ; you know that he may be a blasted man in a long succession of years. And the same is true, and must be true, of the vaccine canker as of the syphilitic chancre. All the records of vaccine diseases, however stoutly denied and carefully suppressed, show that it is so ; and reason and physiology cannot but attest the evidence of the people and the wail of the diseased.  Vaccine disease, vaccine blood-poisoning, lile venereal disease, may be regarded in three stages. Fint, there is the infection of the baby with the poisoned lancet. This infection runs its course for a few weeks, slowing the primary symptoms of the poison. Before the vounds on the little child have healed the secondary synptoms in those who are susceptible of them often appejr. But as in syphilis, so in vaccinia, not all are susceptible of secondary symptoms, or the human race woud crumble under either of the taints. These secondary symptoms consist in the extension of the poison to the lymphatic system, in swellings and hardenings of the lin^s, and in transference of the disease to the internal mes^iteric and other glands in the vital parts. The cankeredjbody like   Symptoms of Vaccination-Poisoning. 2 5  a viper secretes poison, and pours it from part to part. Every viscus is stung, and it is merciful if life soon succumbs to the destroying power. If this state is survived the poison works for years through the impaired and weakened constitution. Every ordinary disease has a fresh chance of slaying in consequence of the vitiation of the system : notably, whooping cough, measles, scarlatina, all the early diseases of childhood : so that the death-rate of these is to be considered in regard to vaccination. The tertiary symptoms of vaccine, like those of venereal, are facts of inference ; for it is an inference, not a sensible fact, that the bone-destructions, tumours, and diseases of venereal old age belong to syphilis, though the inference is also an assured fact. Just in the same way, to the student of vaccinia, the notable incre- ment of scrofula, phthisis, cancer, madness, etc., etc., keeping steadily answerable pace with the increment of vaccination, alleges these diseases in that increment to be commixed with the tertiary symptoms and products of that process j if indeed they are not often its direct fruits.  This subject has yet to be studied; for the medical profession is almost blind to the facts, and is averse to the study; because political vaccination, endowed and established, and become a strong limb in the hundred- handed love of power, allows of no light or truth on the   26 Vaccination as Disease, as Carrier of Diseases,  part of the official vaccinators, who are the medical profession. A few heads may be indicated to exceptional medical men and to the general public.  i st. Vaccination, as a morbid spring, swelling into a morbid river, may be regarded pure and simple. We have already indicated its primary and secondary symptoms. Its pure tertiary symptoms remain to be worked out ; for at present they are complicated with and confused by the symptoms of the diseases of our next groups.  2nd. Vaccination with the other diseases of which it is the carrier. These are smallpox, syphilis, cancer, phthisis, and constitutional diseases generally.  3rd. Vaccination as the arouser and provoker of all the latent diseases and taints of the vaccinated subject.  4th. Where Vaccination is smallpox inoculation, as is now generally the case, the subject involves the history of a new disease, constitutional smallpox, which itself is continually infectious, producing apparently slight vario- loid complaints very widely, and also lending itself as a matrix for terrible and increasing visitations when  smallpox  is prevalent.  If syphilis had been made into a benign disease by Act of Parliament, and its infection had been commanded, which it might have been, for syphilization has been a medical practice ; and if the infectors had been officialized   and as Provoker of Diseases. 2 7  and paid a million a year for their business, the primary- symptoms of syphilis would have been the only ones admitted by the officials ; the secondary symptoms, and still more the remote tertiary symptoms, would have been denied to have any connection with the parliamentary punctures. This denial could have been made ; for as was said before, the connection between the tertiary and primary symptoms, though now a well-known fact, was at first an inference ; and that inference denied, the facts could not have been deposited upon it so as to form a mental substance of certainty. This very process has gone on with vaccination ; and the consequence is that all its symptoms but the primary ones have been ignored, and the medical soul sleeps soundly in the middle of the ruin it has made.  To show what dangerous poisons we are handling when by vaccination we introduce smallpox, and by vitulation (calf-lymphing) cowpox into the system, it may be mentioned that the cattle plague or rinderpest "belongs unquestionably to the same class of diseases as the human exanthemata, such as variola (smallpox), scarlatina, and rubeola" (measles). That "smallpox is the human malady which it most closely resembles." " That the resemblance between rinderpest and smallpox is sufficiently striking to demand immediate inquiry." From accidental inocu- lation on the back of the hand during the examination of   2 ° Our Persecutors.  a bullock dead of cattle plague, Mr. Henry Hancock, Veterinary Inspector, Uxbridge, contracted vesicles similar to vaccine, and went through a sharp attack of a varioloid disease exhibiting both the primary and the secondary symptoms of vaccination. Those eminent men, Mr. Ceely and Dr. Murchison, are our authorities here. The facts serve to show what forces we play with when we put vaccination-smallpox, or any disease ever so remotely resembling it, into the blood of human beings.  Considering the circumstances brought before the reader in these pages- -the condemnation of the whole present system of vaccination by eminent medical men, the recommendation of Sir Thomas Watson that parents should submit to prison rather than run the risk of sub- mitting their children to vaccination, the willingness of nearly the whole profession to abandon the process as unreliable, and to resort to something else not sanctioned by Law to escape the evils of the present system - it is wonderful that persecution in favour of the condemned system still goes on with magisterial power. Fine and imprisonment are the iron legs on which vaccination stalks, for it has no other leg to stand on. This fine and im- prisonment are in themselves chaotic ; for the fines vary from sixpence in one court to twenty shillings in another ;   Our Martyrs. 29  and the imprisonment varies from simple confinement to cropped hair and hard labour. It is surprising. For it is a mark of the hardness of heart and dulness of mind of the scientific nineteenth century \ the epoch of legalized vivisectors, legalized vaccinators, and legalized purveyors of clean prostitutes for the vaccinated services which defend the United Kingdom from domestic disorder and foreign foes. These things are the ministries of health which Parliament and Government provide for us ; and the dissenters from these things are persecuted to ruin by magistrates clerical and lay - especially clerical - though the light of knowledge in favour of such dissenters is now accessible to the whole people.  To the martyrs themselves we can only say, Be of good cheer, and endure to the end. The brand that afflicts you "is lighting a candle in England," as a fellow- martyr said to Brother Latimer at the stake, and " that candle, by God's grace, will not be put out ; " but its light will shine down into the darkest and cruellest places of medical despotism, until people are their own masters for their bodies and their children, just as the other greater candle under God's Providence showed them "the Way and the Truth " for the emancipation of their souls and minds.  It only remains to be said as a general deduction and lesson from the foregoing facts, that in the rectitude of   30 The Supreme Scientific Light and Liberty of Conscience.  the public information about vaccination and its laws, and in the fallibility and unsteadiness of the medical profession, all and sundry persons can find an assured reason to judge the case for themselves without paying heed to the vaccinating doctors. The matter of first certainty is, that the moral sense of mankind is from the beginning outraged by the poisoning of blood to ensure health. That is the rock of ages on which anti-vacci- nation stands. The second certainty is that outward facts confirm this central position, and carry the war against vaccination into all the pretences and subterfuges of medical men. But the moral sense comes first, and gives every man a right, as a good subject and citizen, to refuse to obey legislation which is a crime against God and man.  Abide above all in this moral sense, which is the organ of conscience and the defence of religion under every difficulty. It will produce a Reformation in Medicine, even as the conscience with God speaking in it, and God's Word instructing it, has already produced that Reformation to which we owe all we enjoy of civil and religious liberty. That civil and religious liberty requires continual completion and realization, as new ages make claim upon it, and new dangers from the powers of darkness assail it. For our homes and our children, for our parental love, liberty is an empty   The Supreme Scientific Light and Liberty of Conscience. 3 1  phrase, a skin with no safe heart inside it, so long as any profession under licence of Parliament can violate the feelings and consciences of parents and the bodies of childre::, and be upheld by force in the violation. It is 350 years since our English New Testament, our soul's health, and men and women who held by it, were burnt by English Bishops and Archbishops as a noisome pestilence infecting the human mind. At this day our national bodily health, the very testament of our bodies, the clean tablet of successive childhoods, is branded by a vaccinating Parliament as a nuisance and also as a pest. The time has come for the people to stop this burning also, for they alone can do it, and it is their burning sin while it endures.   VACCINATION TRACTS   LETTERS AND OPINIONS  OF   MEDICAL MEN   [No. 1.]   LONDON WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1877   FACTS FOR LEGISLATORS.   How Vaccination has "stamped out" smallpox.   Vaccination was made compulsory by an Act of Parliament in the year 1853, again in 1867, and still more stringent in 1871. Since 1853 we have had three epidemics of smallpox.  Date.. DeatJis from smallpox.  1st. 1857-58-59 .... 14,244 2nd. 1863-64-65 . . . . 20,059  3rd. 1870-71-72 .... 44,840  Increase of population from 1st to 2nd epidemic 7 per cent.  Increase of smallpox in the same period nearly 50 per cent.  Increase of population from 2nd to 3rd epidemic 10 per cent.  Increase of smallpox in the same period 120 per cent.  Deaths from smallpox in the first ten years after the enforcement of Vaccination by Parliament, 1854 to 1863, . 33>5i5 Ditto in the second ten years, 1864 to 1873, . . 70,458  From Vital Statistics, No. 1. A letter to the Right Hon. G. Sclater-Booth, M.P., by C. T. Pearce, M.R.C.S. February 1877.   LETTERS AND OPINIONS OF MEDICAL MEN.   DEA7H OF TWO CHILDREN FROM VACCINATION.  " This afternoon, in the Police Buildings, Dale Street, Mr. Clarke Aspinall, the Borough Coroner, held an inquest on the body of John Garrity, who was three months old, and the son of a dock labourer, residing in 6 Court, Sawney Pope Street  " The mother of the child was the first witness called. She said that three weeks last Tuesday she took the child to the parish doctor in Great Crosshill Street, who vac- cinated it. She then took it home, and, becoming ill, it died on Friday last.  " Mr. J. C. Cormack, senior surgeon at the North Dis- pensary, who saw the child before and after death, described the appearance its body presented. The cause of death was acute blood-poisoning, the result of the processes set up by vaccination.  " Dr. John Sinclair said he vaccinated the child. Simi- lar matter to that which he used had been employed in the cases of other children. The child, he had no doubt, suffered from erysipelas, set up by the vaccination. He agreed with Mr. Cormack as to the cause of its death. Another child, vaccinated from the matter used in Garrity's case, was now quite well, but it lived in a higher and healthier part of the town.  " Mr. James Penn Harris, surgeon, agreed with the observations of Mr. Cormack and Dr. Sinclair.   4   Vacciiiatio7i Tracts.   " Immediately on the conclusion of the hearing of the evidence in the Garrity inquest, Mr. Aspinall held an investigation as to the death of Owen Hyland, four months old, the son of a labourer, residing in Addison Street. ,  " Mary Hyland, the mother of the child, deposed that she had it vaccinated by Dr. Sinclair three weeks ago and that it died yesterday week last.  " The Coroner having summed up, the jury returned a verdict in each case, stating the opinion that the children died from the effects of pyaemia consequent upon recent vaccination, skilfully performed, and from a good source, but that what were the precise causes leading to that blood-poisoning the medical evidence did not enable them (the jury) to say." - Liverpool Evening Albion. Oct. 20, 1S76.   IMPORTANT LETTER FROM AN EMINENT PHYSICIAN ON THE ABOVE DEATHS FROM VACCINATION  " Liverpool, Oct. 23, 1876.  "Sir, - Your leaders are in general so full of sound com- mon sense, that I feel great diffidence in questioning even one of them. One of your leaders, however, in to-day's issue is so contrary to the legitimate use of logic, that I venture to take exception to it. Thank Heaven, there is such an institution as a coroner's court in England ! for as certain as in the midst of life we are in death, so certain is it that had it not been for the coroner's inquest in the present instance, the public would never have heard of the two children who have died from the direct effects of vaccination - who were previously, mark you, in the best of health. That there are many who die of  vaccination tion I have no doubt whatever ; that there are many maimed for life I have no doubt ; and that scrofulous   Letters and Opinions of Medical Men.   5   and other forms of disease are rendered active by it, every physician in family practice knows it to be an almost everyday occurrence ; in so much so, that every mother of a family dreads the operation in her children, and ask*s the physician to look to the purity of the matter, knowing well how frequent the occurrence of skin eruptions is after vaccination, besides long-continued or permanent bad health. But let me keep to the accident of death. When death follows speedily on vaccination, as in the two cases lately before Mr. Aspinall, there is no difficulty in tracing the true cause, and bringing the case into court ; but when death follows at a later period, it is next to impossible to prove the death as the result of vaccination, and the death may have been as certainly the result of vaccination in such a case as the two cases lately before the court. I saw a case the other day where the little patient has never slept for three weeks, or very little, and it cannot be touched without screaming. It is much emaciated, and otherwise very ill. All this has arisen and dates from the day of its vaccination.  " But there is a most important point in your leader in connection with the two cases lately before the court which I particularly desire to draw your attention to, and that is, that the physicians in attendance and in court, and the coroner himself, in order to protect the law of compulsory vaccination, or in order to blind the public, or both, have endeavoured to explain away the real cause of death, the operation of vaccination, and have substituted an entire fiction - namely, that the children died in con- sequence of the insalubrity of the atmosphere and surrounding circumstances, and from ' the carelessness of mothers in humble life, who allow the pock to be rubbed off, and the matter to run down the arm,' which is not true.  "In the first place, was there a vestige of evidence given in court to justify such a conclusion as the last? None whatever ! And as regards the first, how is it that of the   6   Vaccination Tracts.   thousands who are vaccinated daily, and who reside in the same atmosphere and surroundings, we do not hear of their dying? Therefore it is plain enough that neither of these explanations affords the slightest^ight as to how these two children came by their death. They were the victims of the law, and died from vaccination. Had they been let alone - had they not been vaccinated -there is any number of chances to one that they would still be alive to gladden their parents' hearts. Therefore they died from vaccination, and from vaccination only. Why beat about the bush ? Why should any one in a Christian country be ashamed to own and to tell the truth when called upon ?  " If physicians have any difficulty in the matter of drawing a simple logical conclusion, I give the follow- ing case : - A young lady, aged fifteen, a charming girl, and dearly beloved by all who knew her, was vaccinated by myself with vaccine lymph, as pure as any. Her mother and the cook were vaccinated at the same time, and from the same tube. Eleven days after the operation this blooming girl, who was in the best of health, died, from nothing more or less than the simple operation of re-vaccination to save her from a greater evil - smallpox. The coroner and others may blame the insalubrity of surroundings, the knocking off of scabs, and such like twaddle and make-believes ; but it is a sorry recompense, a precious poor consolation to a broken-hearted mother for the loss of her child. In the case I have alluded to, the young lady belonged to one of the first families in this town ; the salubrity of her abode, Prince's Park, was unquestionable ; and I anxiously examined the vesicle from day to day during her illness. I can vouch for it, it was never broken in the slightest, and went its course as naturally as any vaccine vesicle I ever saw in all my experience. I brought the case before the Medical Institution in this town. The meeting of members owned that the death was due entirely to vaccination, but they expressed a desire that it might not be made   Letters and Opinions of Medical Men.   7   public. I have kept faith with them until now, when the love of truth compels me to proclaim it. Such cases are not so very rare. Sir Culling Eardley was another victim, and it is to be hoped that his mother and the insalubrity of his quarters were not to blame for the misadventure.  " I do not wish to discuss the vexed question of the utility or advisability of vaccination at present. I have not the same faith in it I once had. My object at present is to put the public right as regards the real cause of the death of these two children. I will add this, how- ever, that according to the most recent statistics of the mortality of smallpox in the metropolis, out of eleven deaths, five were vaccinated and six were not. Where is the advantage or protection ? I am perfectly certain that if this point was thoroughly sifted and accurately observed, it will be found that vaccination, at the present day, is no preventive of fatal or other consequences of smallpox, coroners', judges', lawyers', and doctors' opinions to the contrary notwithstanding.  "As you might hesitate to publish this letter as anonymous, I have great pleasure in subscribing my- self, etc., Thos. Skinner, M.D." - Liverpool Daily Post, Oct. 25, 1876.   DR. SHORTHOUSE ON VA CCLNA TLON AND • RE- VA CCINA TION.  (From the Croydon Chronicle of Jan. 6, 1877.)  "Some crazy enthusiasts recommend that lymph be taken direct from the cow. They surely cannot have seen those frightful pictures of the disease so produced which were published by Mr. Ceely of Aylesbury some thirty years ago. Mr. Ceely is the highest authority in the world on this subject, and carried out numerous experiments at the instance of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association. Those experiments were   8   Vaccination Tracts.   carefully and minutely observed, and their results faith- fully and graphically recorded in two volumes. Those observations and experiments are illustrated by a great number of beautifully-executed plates drawn from life. Some of the pictures are very vivid, whilst others are something frightful. There is one which gives a picture of the back of the hand and arm of a youth who got inoculated accidentally whilst milking a cow. There is another which depicts a corroding ulcer on the thumb of a man who got inoculated in the same manner. If these enthusiasts inspect the pictures, I think they would be induced to pause before they advocated the practice of inoculation direct from the cow. In the Croydon Chro- nicle for Nov. 4, 1876, there is a report of the proceed- ings of the Board of Health. Dr. Strong is made to say : ' The idea that vaccination was a species of blood- poisoning was altogether erroneous. Blood was never introduced into the system, but only vaccine lymph.' Surely Dr. Strong never uttered such nonsense as this ; but he has not contradicted it, or put himself right. If he really does mean to contend that blood poisoning can only be produced by the introduction of blood into the system, I reply that he is contending for a position so entirely novel that I think he is bound to furnish evidence in support of it. I can adduce numberless cases to a contrary effect. If a person is bitten by a venomous serpent, is not the result blood-poisoning in one of its worst forms? Yet no ' blood ' is introduced into the system. What is hydro- phobia but a result of blood-poisoning? Yet the mate- rial introduced into the system is not blood, but the saliva of a rabid dog. Puerperal fever, again, is a very frightful form of blood-poisoning, yet it is usually pro- duced in child-bearing women by their being visited by some friend, nurse, or doctor, fresh from attendance upon some other poor creature similarly afflicted.  "Now as to re-vaccination. If I could believe in the necessity for this, I should not believe in vaccination at all.   Leiters and Opinions of Medical Men.   9   Its advocates cut the ground from under their feet. Vac- cination either is, or is not, a preventive. If it be so, it is effective the first time, and does not need to be repeated. To say that it requires repeating at stated periods of five, or seven, or ten years, is arrant humbug and quackery.  "That poisons other than the vaccine virus are some- times introduced into the system by vaccination and by re-vaccination, I have seen abundant proofs. I have seen skin diseases of a very painful and intractable nature supervene upon vaccination many times ; and in a letter of mine, which you published some five or six years ago, I mentioned a case which was then in Croydon, in which a child was suffering in a very frightful manner from the effects of vaccination. That child has not yet recovered. But I was to-day informed of some cases of a still more painful nature which supervened upon re-vaccination. The relater is a gentleman of title, holding a highly responsible position, and I neither suspect nor doubt the accuracy of his report. That gentleman says that a friend of his had four daughters, very healthy, fine girls ; that he was anxious to secure them from the disfigure- ment of a possible attack of smallpox, and that a little time ago he had them all re-vaccinated. The results have been frightfully disastrous. The nose of one of them has been destroyed, the cartilages having all sloughed away ; a second girl has suffered from suppu- ration of the glands of the neck, and is permanently disfigured. The other two, though they have not escaped, have not yet been disfigured, though they have been, and still are, suffering a good deal in other ways -  ' The life of all their blood Is touch'd corruptibly.'  " When such results can follow re-vaccination, I think it behoves us to pause before we thrust it no/ens volens into the systems of unbelievers in its virtues, and who have as much right and reason for their belief as we have for   J a    vaccination  Tracts.   ours j nor do I ever witness or read, without a feeling of horror, the brutal and unfeeling remarks with which some justices season their sentences of fines or imprisonment upon those parents who, from conscientious motives, refrain from availing themselves of a probable boon for fear of a possible harm. In fact, I regard ' State medi- cine ' as one of the biggest shams and greatest swindles in the world, as I hold in abhorrence compulsory vacci- nation, compulsory education, and other costly humbugs of a kindred nature. To say that the human body changes, or renews itself every seven years, and that it is necessary to be re-vaccinated, is to talk arrant nonsense. The body is always being replenished and renewed, but it no more follows that it requires re-vaccination than that it requires a fresh dose of whooping-cough or other poison. Compulsory vaccination is oppressive enough, but compulsory re- vaccination, without any security being given from the purity of the lymph, cannot but be regarded as a great crime ; and not only is it oppressive and criminal, but it is impracticable."   KELLER ON VACCINATION AND smallPOX.  Dr. Leander Josef Keller gives some statistics of vac- cination which deserve to be recorded. Dr. Keller is chief physician to a railway company in Germany. During the year 1872 there came under his notice 573 cases of smallpox amongst the company's servants, or members of their families. Of these 84 died, or 14-66 per cent. Of the whole number, 322 had been vaccinated, and of these 40 died, or 12-42 per cent; 197 had not been vaccinated, and of these 36 died, or 18-27 per cent. Upon this Dr. Keller remarks that " the mean mortality of all the vaccinated is only somewhat smaller than that of the unvaccinated, because the latter form in the first year of life the overwhelming majority, and because in   Letters and Opinions of Medical Men. 1 1  this year the mortality is very great. From three to fifteen years the mortality of the vaccinated (13 -41 per cent.) has been greater than that of unvaccinated (11*32 " per cent.)." Dr. Keller found the mortality in the vac- cinated*and the unvaccinated at different periods of life respectively to be as follows, viz. : - From two to three years of age 30 per cent, of the vaccinated died, whilst of the unvaccinated only 19 per cent. died. From three to four the vaccinated died at the rate of 15 per cent, whilst the unvaccinated died at the rate of but 9 per cent. From four to five 14 per cent, of the vaccinated died, and but 10 per cent, of the unvaccinated. From five to ten ini percent, of the vaccinated died, but only 9 per cent, of the unvaccinated.- From ten to fifteen the vaccinated died at the rate of 8 per cent., whilst the unvaccinated died only at the rate of 7 per cent. Dr. Keller concludes his paper as follows : -  1. Getierally more vaccinated than unvaccinated persons are attacked by smallpox.  2. Re-vaccination did not protect from smallpox, and did not lessen the general mortality.  3. Neither vaccination nor re-vaccination exercised a favourable influence upon the mortality of smallpox.  Dr. Keller concludes by saying that if all reports on smallpox were made in the same way and with the same conscientiousness as his, there would very soon not be the slightest doubt about the complete uselessness of vaccination. - Allgemeine Wie?ier Medizinische Zeitung for August 1873.   TESTIMONY OF DR. HERMAN, PRINCIPAL PHYSICIAN AT THE IMPERIAL HOS- PITAL, VIENNA, FROM 1858 TO 1864.  " My experience of smallpox during those six years of bedside attendance has given me the right, or rather has imposed on me the duty, of taking part in the bold   T 2   Vaccination Tracts.   and spirited onslaught on vaccination which is now being carried on in Switzerland, Germany, England, and other countries. . . . I am convinced that vac- cination is the greatest mistake and delusion in the science of medicine : a fanciful illusion in the fnind of the discoverer ; a phenomenal apparition, devoid of scientific foundation, and wanting in all the conditions of scientific possibility."   VALUE OF RE-VACCINATION ACCORDING TO MEDICAL TESTIMONY.  " In the beginning of the century, when the number of vaccinated persons in the population was compara- tively inconsiderable, the number of smallpox cases among these was also naturally much less than among the unvaccinated remainder, then nearly the whole of the population. When, however, as years went on,  vaccination tion being universally enforced, the numbers of the vaccinated continually increased, we find a progressive increase of smallpox cases among the vaccinated ; till in these last times, when almost the whole population ex- cepting very young children are vaccinated, the number of smallpox cases among unvaccinated adults have become vanishingly small. . . . Precisely the same is the case with re-vaccination. For what vaccination cannot do, that can re-vaccination do just as little. So long as the percentage of the re-vaccinated in the popu- lation was small, the number of re-vaccinated smallpox cases was small also, as must from the above have been expected ; but with the extension of re-vaccination the percentage of re-vaccinated smallpox cases rose also. Everywhere were re-vaccinated smallpox patients to be found, till their number often considerably exceeded that of the unvaccinated." - Superintenditig-Surgeon Reitz, as quoted at pp. 62, 63, of '" Historic and Critical Studies on the   Letters and Opinions of Medical Men. 13  present State of the Vaccination Question," in 3 vols., by Br. Germann, Professor in the University of Leipzig.  John Hunter, the greatest physiologist and anatomist that this country, perhaps, has ever produced, and who was acquainted with Jenner, wrote : - " The introduction by inoculation of mineral or vegetable poisons into the blood, is hazardous, and in certain quantities may be destructive ; but the introduction of animal products from another living body, be it a man, a cow, or even an ass, is infinitely more pernicious, because allied to it in being vitalized."  Sir James Paget, Surgeon to the Queen, affirms, in his Lectures on Inflammation, that the action of the specific poison vaccine is to establish a permanent morbid con- dition of the blood.  Dr. Copeland, in his Dictionary of Practical Medi- cine, p. 829, says : - " Just half a century has elapsed since the discovery and introduction of vaccination, and after a quarter of a century of the most transcendent laudation of the measure, and after another quarter of a century of reverberated encomiums from well-paid Vaccination Boards, raised with a view of overbearing the increased murmurings of disbelief (now rapidly increasing) among those who observe and think for themselves, the middle of the nineteenth century finds the majority of the profession, in all latitudes and hemi- spheres, doubtful as to the preponderance of advantages, present and prospective, to be obtained even from inoculation or vaccination." Dr. Copeland also says that " vaccination favours the prevalence of several forms of scrofula."  Jonathan Hutchinson, Esq., the eminent consulting surgeon, has shown that syphilis may be conveyed by vaccination, even when the lymph is taken from children   14   Vaccination Tracts.   apparently healthy.- See "Medical Times and Gazette? Feb. ist and 8t/i, 1873.  Dr. Hitchman, formerly a public vaccinator at Liver- pool, and now living there, says : - " I have seen hundreds of children killed by vaccination."  Dr. Collins, M.D., in his evidence before a Committee of the House of Commons in 187 1, says : - " Has ceased to vaccinate ten or twelve years. Had known persons who had been vaccinated and re-vaccinated suffer dreadfully from smallpox, two of whom died in the most hideous confluent form, after successful vaccination and re-vacci- nation ; one of them three times vaccinated. Has vaccinated thousands, but at last abandoned the practice, and gave up at least ^500 a year by so doing. Has found that cowpoxing weakened the powers of vitality, and often proved fatal. It imparts or calls into activity diseases which would otherwise remain dormant, such as syphilis, scrofula, etc. Thinks it instrumental in swelling the bills of mortality to a most alarming extent. Has often seen children with syphilitic eruptions after vacci- nation whose parents were free from taint."  Dr. A. H. Carron, of Paris, Chevalier of the Legion of Honour, and member of many learned societies, in a letter to Dr. Caplin, of Portman Square, London, which the latter published a few years ago, says: - "For my own part, it is long since I have positively refused to vaccinate at any price, while the successful results of the smallpox cases I have treated are beyond appeal. . . . In a word, I maintain that vaccination is a bauble, gilded over, indeed, by Act of Parliament, but which is a bauble still, with which doctors rock - too often to a fatal sleep - the gullible children of the world."  Dr. Skelton, Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery, London and Edinburgh :- " This madness-first filtered   Letters and Opinions of Medical Men.   '5   through the brain of Jenner by the superstitious old women of Berkeley and its neighbourhood, who had long secretly practised vaccination upon children - was, after some few years of hard fighting, transmitted to Sir Gilbert Blane and a few of his class ; and as these were the great ' medicine men,' whose wisdom excelled all others, the delusion was soon shared by the King. From the King it passed to the Court, from the Court to the Govern- ment, from the Government to the profession, and from the profession to all who readily move by example in high places. In this way, not England alone, but every part of the civilized world, more or less, went mad ; and humanity is now reaping its reward - not in the extirpa- tion of smallpox, as promised by these fanatics, but in the increase of diseases more frightful in their character, and in their general results more fatal."  C. T. Pearce, M.D., M.R.C.S., in his Essay on Vaccination (1868), and in his voluminous evidence before the Vaccination Committee of the House of Commons (1871), has demonstrated that vaccination is a violation of God's law, and a contaminator of the body. That the increased death-rate of children is coeval with the extension of vaccination. That so far from the practice being protective against smallpox, the liability to smallpox in adult life is greater in the vaccinated than in the unvaccinated. That chest diseases, especially phthisis and bronchitis, have enormously increased since vaccination was adopted. That half of our young women between the ages twenty and twenty-five who die are consumptives. That the mortality of children afflicted with measles, scarlatina, and other diseases, is far greater in the vaccinated than in the unvaccinated.  Dr. B. F. Cornell, M.D., President of the Homoeopathic Medical Society of New York, in his address before that body, delivered Feb. 11, 1868, says: - "It is my firm conviction that vaccination has been a curse instead of a   i6   Vaccination Tracts.   blessing to the race. Every physician knows that cutane- ous diseases have increased in frequency, severity, and variety, to an alarming extent. Not only the ancient forms of eruptive disease, scrofula, psora, erysipelas, tetter, etc., but new varieties are making their Appear- ance for which no satisfactory cause can be given, unless they are a compound of all the others, with a sprinkling of venereal to give them respectability, and as con- temporaries, a corresponding increase of chronic disease of all the internal organs. To what is this increase owing ? Contagion may account for some of the varieties ; in a large majority, however, to no medium of transmis- sion is the widespread dissemination of this class of disease so largely indebted as to vaccination.  T. L. Nichols, M.D., F.as., in his Esoteric An- thropology, p. 1 86, says: - "Syphilis, scrofula, and probably every kind of blood-poison can be taken by vaccination, which, so far from being a protection against smallpox, seems to have been one of the chief causes of the late epidemics. It is never safe to take matter from another body into our own : we risk taking all its diseases. There is no doubt thousands have been mortally poisoned by vaccination."   The Daily Telegraph on the Spirit of Modern Medi- cine, and on the Religion and Conscience of the Vacci- nating Profession.  " Medicine is a matter in which phrases such as ' right ' and 'wrong' have no application."-/?. T., Man/i 3, 1877.   VACCINATION TRACTS   FACTS AND FIGURES   SHOWING THAT VACCINATION HAS FAILED TO STAMP OUT, ARREST, OR MITIGATE smallPOX   LONDON WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD   No. 2.]   1877   FACTS AND FIGURES .  SHOWING THAT VACCINATION HAS FAILED TO STAMP OUT, ARREST, OR MITIGATE smallPOX.   It was shown in Tract No. i that medical men are far from being unanimous as to the supposed value of vaccination. In the present Tract it will be demonstrated statistically, by quotations from the highest authorities, that the prediction of Dr. Jenner that vaccination would totally eradicate smallpox has not been realized, but that, on the contrary, concurrently with the extension of vaccination, there has been, both in this and other countries, a great increase of smallpox.  Prosecutions of parents for refusing to have their children vaccinated have of late become so frequent and general, that it may not be amiss to inquire whether these victims to a harsh, unconstitutional, and un-English law have not good grounds for the course they take. Any one would suppose that if it were possible to "stamp out " smallpox by vaccination, that desirable result would long ago have been accomplished. The doctors have had it all their own way for seventy-six years. Not content with persuasion, they have invoked the strong arm of the law to enforce the operation ; they have estab- lished a public vaccinator in every town and village, and vaccination officers (spies in disguise) have been employed to hunt up the children and drive them " like sheep to the slaughter " to the Government places, commonly called vaccine stations. What tales of horror, suffering, and anguish could the walls of these dens reveal if they had tongues to speak ! What has been the result of all this? Has smallpox been stamped out? Ex- perience answers, No ! Has it been mitigated ? Again experience, pointing to the deaths of thousands of the   Facts and Figures.   3   laccinated, answers, No ! Vaccination was made com- lulsory in 1853, since which time smallpox has never been absent from the country, but has increased both in luantity.and malignancy, each epidemic being more levere and fatal than the one preceding. The truth of ¦his statement is evident from the following figures, com- liled from the reports of the Registrar-General by C. T. Pearce, M.D., M.R.C.S., England, and published by him In a letter to the Right Hon. G. Sclater-Booth, M.P.,  Resident of the Local Government Board, entitled  Vital Statistics, No. 1, February 1877 : -  Deaths from  Date of Epidemic. smallpox.  ist. 1857-58-59 I4> 2 44  2nd. 1863-64-65 20,059  3rd. 1870-71-72 44>84o  increase of population from ist to 2nd epidemic, 7 per cent. Increase of smallpox in the same period, nearly 50 per cent. 'ncrease of population from 2nd to 3rd epidemic, 10 per cent.  Increase of smallpox i?i the same period, 120 per cent. Deaths from smallpox in the first ten years after the enforcement of vaccination - 1854 to 1863, 33)515 In the second ten years - 1864 to 1873 . 7o>458  At the present time (April 1877) smallpox is raging unchecked among the well-vaccinated populations of London, Liverpool, and Manchester. Prior to the passing of the Compulsory Law, one smallpox hospital sufficed for the whole of London ; now four are not sufficient to contain the victims.  Vaccination does not prevent smallpox - the most recent returns of the London smallPox Hospital showing that over 90 per cent, of the patients there have been vaccinated.  In Sheffield during the four years ending 1867 - before vaccination was enforced by fines and imprisonment -   4   Vaccination Tracts.   the total deaths from smallpox were only 321. During the four years ending 1871 - when vaccination was enforced by fine and imprisonment, and when the pro- portion of vaccinations to births was increased to four- fifths - the deaths from smallpox rose to 907.- Sheffield a?id Rotherham Independent, March at h, 1875.  In Keighley, during the recent epidemic, 208 vacci- nated persons have had smallpox, of whom 25 have died, and 10 who have been re- vaccinated also have had  smallpox , and of these 5 have died, whilst there are hundreds of un vaccinated children in Keighley Union who have' escaped the disease. - Keighley Herald, Sept. 25th, 1875.  In Miiller's Orphan Homes, Bristol, where every child had been vaccinated, there were, during the first, half of 1872, 293 cases of smallpox, nineteen of which proved fatal : as high a rate of mortality, taking age into consideration, as prevailed before the introduction of vaccination. - See the 33rd Report of the above Institution, by George Miiller, page 91.  In the face of this extensive experience no one will venture to say that vaccination prevents smallpox; but some may hazard the assertion that if the 293 persons who were the subjects of smallpox had not been vaccinated, a larger number would have died. We have, however, the means of testing the value of such an assertion in a pamphlet published by Isaac Massey, apothecary to Christ's Hospital in London, in the year 1723, when all persons were necessarily unvaccinated, since Jenner performed his first vaccination in 1796. Isaac Massey writes : - " The children of Christ's Hospital are generally a flux body of about nine hundred or more; and I affirm that in that place not one out of fifty have died these last twenty years of that distemper, and but one the last nine years of the smallpox, although near 600 have been constantly in the house, and I believe some hundreds have been down of it " (page 10). Dr. ;   Facts and Figures.   5   Wagstaffe, writing in the previous year, states respecting smallpox among children, that the fatality amounted to "hardly one in a hundred" (page 63).  Comparing, then, present experience with that of 150 years ago, the only logical conclusion to be drawn is that, if vaccination has any influence at all on smallpox, it is to make it not less, but more fatal. - George S. Gibbs, F.S.S.  In Birmingham, one of the best vaccinated towns in the kingdom, the public vaccinator having been awarded, in addition to his fees, during four years, 1870-74, ^893, 15s.* for diligence in vaccinating suc- cessfully, smallpox destroyed during 1874 over six hundred persons, most of whom had been " protected " by  vaccination tion. " Dr Alfred Hill, Medical Officer of Health and Public Analyst for Birmingham, in his last weekly return, gives the total number of cases of smallpox in that borough, since the 18th November 187 1, as 7706, of which 6795 had been vaccinated, 830 not vaccinated, and 81 doubtful. There had been 1270 deaths, of which 840 had been vaccinated, 404 not vaccinated, and 26 doubtful." - Daily News, August 25th, 1875.  The mortality from smallpox in the British Army, where vaccination and re-vaccination is rigidly enforced, is greater than in the partially-vaccinated civil popula- tion, as the following figures will show : - In the ten years, 1859 to 1868, there were in the army 117 deaths from smallpox, i.e. a death-rate of 1*46 per 10,000 men,  * Important Note. - "The award to the vaccinator is indeed a gift that ' blindeth the wise.' There is no dogma or practice, i however absurd, that could not be enforced where such means are at the disposal of officials who cany out the law. The gold is the best argument in the service - in fact, almost the only one left ; and this new device of paying for the work a second time, in the shape of 'awards,' is a keen stroke of policy; and is the surest way of perpetuating this traffic in disease and death."- And- Vaccinator, /une 1, 1872.   6   Vaccination Tracts.   while in the entire civil population, over five years of age, the death-rate was only o-86 per io,ooo.  In the Navy, where the doctor has despotic power, and vaccinates ad libitum, the same miserable failure appears, - "Of the febrile diseases (2867) there were 89 of smallpox."- Health of the Navy, Lancet, July 4th, 1874.  "Of 38 cases of smallpox treated in Haslar Hospital in 1872, 4 terminated fatally, a mortality in the ratio of 10-5 per 100. Every one of these thirty- eight had been vaccinated 'successfully' at the period of their childhood, and in two of the severe cases re- vaccination had been attended with success." - From Inspector-General Dommefs Navy Health Report, quoted in " The Sanitary Record."   EXTRACT FROM A PAPER "ON THE IN- CREASED MORTALITY FROM  smallpox " BY JOSEPH BAXENDELL, F.R.as.  (Read before the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Vol. XVI., No. 9.)  " As the best test of the value of vaccination, I have discussed the smallpox statistics of London - the best vaccinated city in the kingdom - and compared the re- sults for the five years 1849-53, before vaccination was made compulsory, with those for the five years 1869-73, when compulsory vaccination had been twenty years in operation. In the former five years, when vaccination was voluntary, and the number of vaccinated persons probably did not amount to 10 per cent of the total population, the death-rate from smallpox in London was •292 ; but in the latter five years, when vaccination had been strictly carried out for twenty years, and the num- ber of vaccinated persons was 95 per cent, of the popu- lation, the rate was '679, thus showing the extraordinary increase of 132 '5 per cent.   Fads and Figures.   7   FATALITY OF smallPOX NOW AND DUR- ING THE LAST CENTURY CONTRASTED, BY G. S. GIBBS, F.S.S.  After the lapse of eighty years - seeing Jenner per- formed his first vaccination in 1796 - this practice is found universally to fail in its object, that is, to protect individuals submitted to it from attack, and fatal attack, by smallpox. In the face of this fact, however, it is ; asserted that the practice has produced nationally a decline of smallpox mortality. Now, as the nation is composed of individuals, it seems clear that one of these propositions must be wrong ; and I think it not difficult to demonstrate, in spite of the apparently unanswerable figures put forward by Mr. Scott, that the last one will not sustain any serious weight of criticism. We are told that before the introduction of vaccination the rate of smallpox mortality was 3000 per million of population. This is a very wide assertion, the value of which is ascertainable only by tracing it to its original source. This, by the help of Dr. Seaton and other supposed authorities on vaccination, we are enabled to do, and finally run it to earth in a publication by Dr. Lettsom in 1 80 1. His words are: - "In London and its environs 1 there are about one million of inhabitants, of whom about ; 3000 die annually by the natural smallpox, or about 1 36,000 in Great Britain and Ireland." "About" and i "about" and "about" scarcely enter into the statistics of to-day, and we are not unprepared to find that Dr. Blane, who is frequently referred to as confirming Dr. Lettsom, gives figures which reduce the proportion from I 3000 per million to 2155 per million; but both are I guilty of applying the events of one town to the whole ; kingdom, and their followers have enlarged the error by ! applying them to the whole world as well as to all time. I We may easily see, by reference to the more accurate j statements of the Registrar-General {Annual Report, 34///) what value vaccination has with regard to smallpox when   8   Vaccination Tracts.   we follow this method. In the year 187 1 smallpox caused 23,126 deaths in England and Wales, being a proportion per million of inhabitants of 1024; but the rate per million in the same year was, in -   Chester-le-Street  Tynemouth .  Bedwelly  Liverpool  Coventry  Durham   3183  Gateshead  • 5°9S  3256  Newcastle-on-Tyne  • 5351  3823  Caistor . .  • 5789  3431  Southampton  • 6347  4138  South Shields  • 8059  4773  Sunderland .  . 8283   If, after the fashion of Drs. Lettsom and Blane, we applied the Sunderland rate to the whole population, we should have as the number of smallpox deaths, in 187 1, no less than 188,125 ! And this after 75 years of vaccination ; 57 voluntary, 14 compulsory, and 4 doubly, trebly, or ini- mitably compulsory ! To parody Mr. Scott's People's Magazine, which clearly needs re-editing, we may say, " The enormous loss caused by vaccination in human life by erysipelas, scrofula, consumption, and a myriad of other ills, is positive and indisputable. Since vaccination was made compulsory, smallpox is a national calamity, and that vaccinators should still be allowed to practise is a national scandal." - Newcastle Weekly Chronicle, Sept. 30, 1876.   MORTALITY FROM smallPOX IN OTHER COUNTRIES WHOSE POPULATIONS ARE SAID TO BE "PROTECTED" BY VACCI- NATION.  (Extracted front the Reports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council and Local Government Board. Nat) Series, No. IV., 1875.)  Ireland. - "A total mortality of 4292 in 2\ years" (page 57).   Facts and Figures.   9   Icotland.- "The smallpox deaths for the year 187 1 amounted to 1432. The year following the deaths were much more numerous" (page 58).  In Important Facts on Vaccination, by E. Procter, Jewcastle-upon-Tyne, 1873, we find the following : -  " Until quite recently it used to be a stock argument to ppeal to the evidence from Scotland and Ireland ; the uccessful carrying out of the Act in those countries laving been the means, it was alleged, of stamping out he smallpox there. But these fine-spun theories have >een completely upset by the recent fearful epidemic. The Third Annual Report of the Registrar-General of Scot- and says, ' Never, since civil registration began in Scot- and, has smallpox been so rare as during the past Mr ee years, when the Vaccination Act was in full opera- ion.' Dr. Playfair said in the House of Commons, uly 6th, 1870 : - 'There could not be the slightest doubt hat compulsory laws, when properly applied, as in Scotland and Ireland, were perfectly equal to stamp out mall-pox in a country.' The Registrar-General for Scotland informs us that 977 percent of the births have )een vaccinated, the Compulsory Act having been in )peration eight years; yet, during 187 1, they have had 1 frightful epidemic in Dundee. In this instance we lave the astounding fact, that out of every 100 deaths rom smallpox, more than 37 were children under five /ears of age ! Taking into consideration those children fvho died in extreme infancy, after registration, and before vaccination, it may be said that, practically, every child In Scotland is vaccinated ; yet here we have an epidemic 'n which the mortality was 8*8 per cent, of the total deaths ; and of these, 37 out of every 100 were children inder five years of age.  "After this epidemic Scotland has quietly dropped out }f the quiver from which arrows may be drawn to stab .he ' fanatics.' And if we turn to Ireland, we find the   to   Vaccination Tracts.   logic of facts has also crushed to atoms this pillar of sup- port. It has been frequently asserted, and Sir Dominic Corrigan said in the House of Commons two or three years ago, that vaccination had stamped out smallpox in Ireland ; but since then there have been' frightful epidemics of this disease in Dublin, Belfast, and Cork. I have all the official statistics by me, but, without going too much into detail, it may be sufficient to say in relation to Ireland, that during the recent epidemic the mortality from smallpox in Dublin was 7 "6 per thousand of the population, whilst the mortality in London during the epidemic year 1871 was only 24 per thousand; and in Cork, in the quarter ended June 1872, the rate actu- ally reached 23-2 per thousand. In other words, in one of the principal towns of well-vaccinated Ireland, the mortality from smallpox for the first half of 1872 has been ten times greater than in London during the worst epidemic we have had for seventy years ! No doubt the doctors, who accounted for the absence of the disease by the universal stamping out by vaccination, will now account for its prevalence by the statement that Ireland is " only half- vaccinated." But what dependence can be placed upon the shifting sand of such assertions?"  Prussia. - " The smallpox deaths of Prussia, which in 1870 were 4200, rose in 187 1 to 69,839" (page 59).  " Prussia," says the Pall Mall Gazette of May 24th, 1871, "is the country where re-vaccination is most generally practised, the law making the precaution obligatory on every person, and the authorities con- scientiously watching over its performance. As a natural result cases of smallpox are rare." (!) Oh the irony of events ! Oh the audacity of lies !  Holland.- "In 187 1 the total deaths from it in the kingdom amounted to 15,787 " (page 60).   Facts and Figures. n  Hamburgh. - Population 338,974. "The total  smallpox  deaths in 187 1 were 3647, or 28-97 per cent, of the year's mortality from all causes" (page 62).  Reference to pages 62 and 63 of the Reports will show that the disease also extensively and fatally prevailed in Saxony, France, Belgium, Austria, St. Petersburgh, Italy, Spain, and Portugal.  From Sweden, the best vaccinated country in the world, where vaccination is rigidly enforced, comes the same tale of utter failure, the deaths from smallpox in this country in 1873 amounting to 1122, and in 1874 to 4063.  Rektor P. A. Siljestrom, in his Essay on Vaccination in Sweden* states that "at the present time (1873-74) Sweden is suffering from smallpox as never before in the memory of man," and in his statistical tables shows that deaths by smallpox, which had steadily decreased before vaccination was introduced, have since then again began to increase, and are now increasing, in spite of vaccination, as formerly they decreased without vacci- nation.  The Standard of March 26th, 1874, speaking of the smallpox epidemic in Stockholm, says : " The total of the smallpox cases since the beginning of the epidemic in November 1873 has been 2349, of which 492 have proved fatal."  For more complete statistics, see a paper by Mrs. Hume-Rothery, page 14.  In Milan, in 1871, smallpox attacked 17,109, persons, of whom 2887 died, although the number of patients classed as unvaccinated was only 278, the death-rate of * F, Pitman, 20 Paternoster Row (1875)   12   Vaccination Tracts.   the vaccinated and unvaccinated being nearly equal. The vaccinated died 16-87, an d the unvaccinated at i6*6| per cent. - See Medical Times and Gazette, Nov. 23, 1872.  As for re-vaccination, the second operation is simply a proof of the failure and condemnation of vaccination. But re-vaccination in its turn is also a failure, as abun- dantly proved by those who have been re-vaccinated, and nevertheless fallen victims to smallpox. Dr. Stramm, Medical Staff Officer in the Prussian army, has written a pamphlet strongly condemning vaccination not only as entirely useless in preventing smallpox, but positively mischievous. He concludes as follows : - " I myself have been vaccinated, and twice successfully re-vaccinated, and yet in the exercise of my official medical duties, during the late epidemic in Prussia, I have been attacked with smallpox in the most virulent confluent form, and been only saved from the worst consequences by a speedy change of climate."  In the epidemic which reached the families of the officials and workmen of the Austrian State Railways in 1872-73-74, and which carried off 317 vaccinated people, the directors have reported, through their head physi- cian, that 92 re-vaccinated persons were attacked by smallpox, and that 16 of them died.  The following quotations are from a pamphlet, pub- lished in St. Petersburg in 1873, by Dr. Reitz, head physician to the Elizabeth Children's Hospital in that city, translated by Mr. H. D. Dudgeon of Quorn : -  "In 1872 Dr. Caradec published his experience of the Brest Hospital in the first seven months of 1870, in which 85 re-vaccinated persons were treated for  smallpox , and 26 of them died.  "In the Leipzic epidemic of 1870-72 the number of smallpox cases in the City Hospital included 79 re-vacci- nated ; and Dr. Meyer reports 36 re-vaccinated pelsoris in the Berlin smallpox Institution in the year 1869. Dr. Lind-   Facts and Figures.   13   rurm says that in the smallpox hospital at Munich there rere 50 re-vaccinated cases. In the great Berlin epidemic f 1871-72 the death-rate of the re-vaccinated sufferers was early as high as that of the vaccinated patients in the ospitals""! Dr. Miiller says that in 1871 the number of e-vaccinated patients was 1036, of whom 162 died. This ; 15 per cent. It will thus be seen that re-vaccination > an insecure protective. It is, in fact, in many instances, cause of smallpox. It certainly is often followed by rysipelas. Six years ago the possibility of disease and earn occurring through vaccination was stoutly denied, in t the fact is now admitted by the high functionaries of tate. In the official report of the Imperial Foundling lospital at St. Petersburg for the year 1864, the cases f erysipelas after vaccination are given as 156, of whom 2 died. In the following year the cases were 90, and lie deaths 36, and in the years 1869, 1870, 187 1, the ases were 275, and the deaths 92."  In 1870-71 smallpox carried of in Paris no less than 5,421 persons, and proved far more murderous than the re of the enemy or the civil war. For the whole of Yance it is no exaggeration to place the number of eaths it has caused at 200,000. - Medical Times and razette, Oct. 25^/2, 1873.  Abundant statistics, all pointing to the same conclusion, ould be produced, proving that wherever vaccination as been practised, it has utterly failed to " stamp out," rrest, or mitigate smallpox; and showing that the ssertions of Mr. John Simon, Medical Officer of the 'rivy Council and Local Government Board, that roperly performed infantine vaccination, duly renewed t puberty, will virtually extinguish smallpox as a fatal isease among such populations as have recourse to it ; lso that no properly vaccinated country can suffer from n epidemic of smallpox, are assertions unsupported by icts, and totally incapable of proof.   14   Vaccination Tracts.   Surely these facts must convince every unprejudiced mind that vaccination is powerless to prevent smallpox ; indeed most doctors have long since abandoned the "prevention" theory, and go in only for "mitigation;" but this last refuge of a rotten and falling delusion has been unmasked, and torn to shreds, by a Fellow of the Statistical Society, who, in the Echo of November 4th, has shown that the percentage mortality now of smallpox cases is nearly the same as it was during the last century before vaccination was discovered, the slight difference being in favour of the ante-vaccination period.  In the words of Edmund Procter, it would be difficult to use language too severe in reprobation of the effrontery or ignorance with which pro-vaccinators ignore these crushing and irrefutable facts. I lay them at the door of the medical faculty, and challenge them to dis- prove my statements. I charge them, as scientific men, with either scandalous ignorance of notorious facts, or shameful dishonesty in refusing to examine them. If such statements are fallacious, why, in the name of human reason and common honesty, do they not refute and expose them? If they are true, as I maintain they are, and unanswerable, as I believe them to be, then to de- fend such a system is inexcusable, and to practise it a crime. - Procter's Essay on Vaccination, page 10.   SWEDISH STATISTICS.  BY MARY C. HUME-ROTHERY.  It is well known what capital was made some years since by our opponents of Swedish smallpox statistics, which, by very ingenious manipulation, the judicious elision of one or two unlucky epidemic years, etc., were made to appear as if they bore conclusive testimony to the value of vaccination. It may be interesting, in   Facts and Figures.   remembrance of this, if I place before my readers a table of statistics, forwarded to me by Count Zedtwitz, which compares the mortality from smallpox in Sweden for the eleven years 1790 to 1800 inclusive (thus before the introduction of vaccination, and under the deadly reign of inoculation - now confessed to have sown the disease broadcast, and greatly increased the mortality) ; and the smallpox mortality in the Prussian province of Posen for eleven years, 1863 to 1873 inclusive, under the reign of compulsory vaccination, not to say re-vaccination, which latter, though I believe not exactly compulsory on all classes, is practised in Prussia to a very great extent. These tables are from official statistics, only brought together for comparison by Count Zedtwitz.   smallPOX MORTALITY   In the Kingdom of Sweden before the introduction of Vaccination.   Population.   2,210,240   2.391,193   Died of  smallpox .   5,000 3,000 I.OOO 2,000 3,000 6,000 4,000 1,000 1,000 3,000  12,032   Per million   2,l6o 1,356 452 904  1,356 2,586 1,724  431 431  I ,293 5,064   In the 11 years 17,757   On an average 1,614   In the Prussian Province of Posen under Compulsory Vaccination.   In the year.   1863 1864 1865 1866 1867 1868 1869 1870 1871 1872 1873   Population.   M85,555  I ,523,729 !,537,338  1,583,804   Died of  smallpox .   1,271 1,629  1,950 1,631 1,487 740  599 918  7,202 10,796  2,029   Per million.   860 1,076 I,28o 1,070 960 480 390 580 4,550 6,820 1,280   In the 11 years 19,346 On an average 1,758   We see, therefore, that in irovmce there died of small   this well-vaccinated Prussian •pox, on an average of eleven   i6   Vaccination Tracts.   years, 144 more per million than in the 'kingdom o f Sweden, on an average of eleven years, before the intro- duction of vaccination.  Count Zedtwitz proceeds : - " The greatest smallpox mortality ever known in Sweden occurred in "che years 1778-79, when 2 - 66 per 1000 of inhabitants died. In Posen in 1869-73, 272 per 1000 of the inhabitants died."  Thus more in our day under vaccination than in the last century before vaccination was known. But Count Zedtwitz furnishes me with further data for judging of the effects of vaccination in Sweden itself : - " In the years 1870-72, while Germany was suffering so severely from smallpox, Sweden remained comparatively free from the disease, for, according to the Swedish Statistical Bureau, there died of smallpox in those years only 1439 persons in the whole kingdom. This wa's of course ascribed to the vigorous carrying out of vaccination, shown by the Swedish tables to have been performed on nearly the whole infant population during the years 1869 to 1874, 71 per cent, i.e. of children born in the preceding year, and as about one-third die in the first year of life, this amounts as near as possible to the whole. But in 1874 there set in a dreadful epidemic, in which 1 per 1000 of the whole population died, and in Stockholm itself alone n 92 persons, 7^9 per 1000, thus more than in Berlin in 187 1, when 6'2 per 1000 fell victims to the same disease. Now as it is well known that this terrible mortality in Berlin was seven or eight times as great in proportion to the population as the smallpox mortality in London in the same terrible epidemic, and as we now find that the mortality in Stockholm was still greater than that of Berlin, only the 'vaccination-seed sprang up,' as Count Zedtwitz expresses it, a couple of years later, we think we may safely leave our pro-vaccinating friends to extract what consolation they can from Swedish statistics."  Circular of the National Atiti- Compulsory Vaccination  League, June 1876.   id. each; 9d. per dozen ; 6s. per hundred.   VACCINATION TRACTS   OPINIONS OF STATESMEN, POLITICIANS, PUBLICISTS, STATISTICIANS, AND SANITARIANS.  No. 1.   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD  [No. 3.] 1879   [Second Edition,]   OPINIONS OF STATESMEN, ETC.   MR. SHAW LEFEVRE.  {From " The Lancet " November 2.7th, 1S69.)  "A correspondent of the Builder states that, being lately in the churchyard of Worth, in Dorsetshire, he met with a tombstone bearing the following inscription : -  'Benjamin Jesty, of Downshay, died April 16, 1S16, aged seventy-nine. He was born at Yetminster, in this county, and was an upright, honest man, particularly noted for having been the first person known that introduced the cowpox by inoculation, and who for his great strength of mind made the experiment from the cow on his wife and two sons, in the year 1774.'  If this were a correct statement, it would follow that Jenner's discovery was anticipated by twenty years, his first vaccination experiment having been made in 1796. ' But we do not find that Mr. Jesty adopted any means to establish the priority of his claim, either at the time that Jenner published his memoir on Vaccination, or subse- quently, when Parliament rewarded the latter as the discoverer of the protective influence of vaccination. We must decline therefore to transfer to the memory of Mr. Jesty the honour which has so universally, and for so many years, been accorded to the memory of Jenner, in the absence of any more credible evidence than is afforded by an inscription on a tombstone."   Mr. Shaw Lejevre.   3   The following speech is appended to show how unreliable the Lancet is in matters of history : -  In Committee of Supply, on July 29, 1807, the Right Honourable Spencer Perceval moved that a grant of money b*e made to Dr. Jenner. Mr. Shaw Lefevre spoke as follows : -  " It is with very great reluctance that I rise to oppose an act of liberality towards any individual ; but I am acting solely by what I conceive to be my duty. I have a great respect for this learned physician, whose talents are highly in the estimation of mankind ; but being one of those who, on a former occasion, thought that the application to the House of Commons for ^2 0,000 was excessive, I concurred in the vote for ,£10,000 only. I did it under an idea, which, I thought, was not an ill founded one ; I did it on the faith I had in the report of a Committee of this House, which report contained much extraordinary matter, but which I thought experience might afterwards confirm. But now it does appear from the report of the College of Physicians, that some of the matter of the former report was unfounded ; that many of the statements in it went to a greater extent than experience justifies. It was stated in that report, 'That the practice of the vaccine inoculation was infallible as a cure to the smallpox,' but we now find that in a great many cases it has failed. That in 56 cases of the vaccine inoculation the smallpox has followed, so that here we have 56 cases of real failure. (No ! no ! no ! from various parts of the House). I think it is fair to infer this, when we consider the manner in which the infallibility of the discovery was stated in the former report, as to the recurrence of the disease. The next part of the report was, ' That after the vaccine inoculation no other disease would follow.' Now, it is stated by the Surgeon's Report (and those surgeons I should wish to examine before I assent to any vote for a further sum o." money on account of this discovery) that scrofula has appeared after this vaccination, and some other alarming   4   Mr. Shaw Lefevre.   symptoms. There is another consideration which weighs with me on this occasion, in respect to the assertion that this practice has never really failed. I should like to call to the bar of this House witnesses, by whose testi- mony, I understand, several cases of failure will ' be made manifest ; and I think it necessary to show, if the fact be so, that the report now before us is inaccurate. The present late period of the Session is another consideration with me ; when so many members of this House are gone out of town, either on public or on private business ; and therefore I do not think this the season for bringing forward a vote for a considerable sum of the public money, for I do not find, on any occasion of late, a great attendance in this House. As to Dr. Joiner himself, I can only say, that he is a person for whom I have a great respect ; but whether he be really the inventor of this remedy has been made a question. It is asserted that this has been invented so long ago as the year 1777. (No! no! no ! from all parts of the House). It is said that a man of the name of Jesty found out this remedy, and tried the experiment on himself and his family. I think that if this be true, and if this House chooses to be liberal to the inventor of this remedy, this vote should be extended to that man or to his family. - Sir, I can only say, that in the course I shall take on the present occasion, I conceive myself to be doing my duty. I certainly shall oppose this vote; at the same time I ought to add, that I do not know that I shall always persist in opposing it, for that my great object is to gain time and further opportunity to examine the report of the College of Physicians. I think further time is necessary to satisfy this House. I am sure that I want further time to be satisfied myself on this subject. At a distant period the consideration of it may be resumed, but it appears to me at present premature."  The fact was, Jenner had more powerful friends in Parliament than Jesty. Then, as now, the strongest party gained the day, the vote was passed on a division by sixty votes against forty-seven, and Jenner's friends   Sir Francis Burdett.   5   have ever since assumed, that all questions connected with the subject were settled, boasting that the immortal Jenner received ,£30,000 for his discovery.   SPEECH ON VACCINATION.  By the late Sir Francis Burdett, Bait., M.P. for Westminister, in the House of Commons, on the 9th June 1808.  The practice of voluntary vaccination having fallen into disrepute, Mr. James C. Moore, the historian of the smallpox and cowpox, persuaded Dr. Jenner's friends to propose the formation of a National Vaccine Board, and Sir Francis Burdett opposed the motion in the following speech : -  " The Vaccine," he said, " now presented itself with a different complexion from that which it had assumed originally. It cannot be forgotten, that a very short time ago we were told it was proved, that this system of vaccination was almost infallible, and one of the great advantages of the system was stated to be, that the practice was so simple, that any old woman in the country might with safety vaccinate ; but now, unfor- tunately, the business wears a very different aspect ; and the partizans of the system acknowledge that it is a very nice operation, requiring great judgment and skill ; the want of which is assigned as the cause of the many failures which have occurred. So we find there is neither that simplicity nor security which was originally held out to this House and to the country. Now, con- sidering those failures, it appears to me very dangerous to be holding out any flattering hopes to the public, by a vote of this House in favour of that which appears to be a failing experiment; we ought to be cautious, lest we fall into a pernicious error. Government have not the power in this, as in other countries, to compel people to submit either to prescriptions of physicians, or to operations   6   William Cobbett.   of surgeons, or to anything else except the laws ; and J doubt much whether any science is likely to be much bene- fited by being placed wider the care of Government. As to this particular subject, there have been so many instances of failures, that the utility of the system may, perhaps, be doubted ; for we may set down the number of failures to be double that which we have heard of. This may be the more suspected, from a spurious complaint being mentioned, which I do not understand. It appears to me a mere shift, a mere get-off; because that is, or is not, a disease ; and there is no other criterion, but thai of a disease following, or not following vaccination, by which we can judge of vaccination. As to the College of Physicians, they have given no opinion upon the matter : they have only reported the result of that evid- ence which was laid before them. Now, as to an opinion upon evidence, there need be no application to physicians for that purpose ; this House is, I hope, as able to judge of evidence as they are. For all these reasons I should very much prefer a Committee of inquiry to any legis- lative measure whatever; and I should hope this reso- lution would not at this moment be pressed."   WILLIAM COBBETTS ADVICE TO A FATHER ON VACCINATION.  " I was always, from the very first mention of the thing, opposed to the cowpox scheme. If efficacious in preventing the smallpox, I objected to it merely on the score of its beastliness. There are some things, surely, more hideous than death, and more resolutely to be avoided ; at any rate, more to be avoided than the mere risk of suffering death. And amongst other things. I always reckoned that of a parent causing the blood, and the diseased blood too, of a beast to be put into the veins of human beings, and those beings the children   William Cobbett.   7   of that parent. I therefore, as will be seen in the pages of the Register of that day, most strenuously opposed the giving of ^"20,000 to Jenner out of the taxes, paid in great part by the working-people, which I deemed and asserted to be a scandalous waste of the public money.  I contended, that this beastly application could not, in nature, be efficacious in preventing the smallpox; and that, even if efficacious for that purpose, it was wholly un- necessary. The truth of the former of these assertions has now been proved in thousands upon thousands of in- stances. For a long time, for te?i years, the contrary was boldly and brazenly asserted. This nation is fond of quackery of all sorts ; and this particular quackery having been sanctioned by King, Lords, and Commons, it spread over the country like a pestilence borne by the winds. Speedily sprang up the " ROYAL Jennerian Institution" and Branch Institutions, issuing from the parent trunk, set instantly to work, impregnating the veins of the rising and enlightened generation with the beastly matter. " Gentlemen and ladies " made the commodity a pocket-companion ; and if a cottager's child (in Hampshire at least), even seen by them, on a common, were not pretty quick in taking to its heels, it had to carry off more or less of the disease of the cow. One would have thought that one-half of the cows in England must have been tapped to get at such a quantity of the stuff.  In the midst of all this mad work, to which the doctors, after having found it in vain to resist, had yielded, the real smallpox, in its worst form, broke out in the town of Ringwood, in Hampshire, and carried off, I believe (I have not the account at hand), more than a hundred persons, young and old, every one of whom had had the cowpox "so nicely 7" And what was now said? Was the quackery exploded, and were the granters of the ,£20,000 ashamed of what they had done? Not at all : the failure was imputed to unskilful operators:   8   William Cobbett.   to the staleness of the matter ; to its not being of the genuine quality. Admitting all this, the scheme stood condemned ; for the great advantages held forth were, that anybody might perform the operation, and that the matter was everywhere abundant and cost-free. But these were paltry excuses ; the mere shuffles of quackery; for what do we know now ? Why, that in hundreds of instances, persons cowpoxed by Jenner Himself, have taken the real smallpox afterwards, and have either died from the disorder, or narrowly escaped with their lives ! I will mention two instances, the parties concerned being living and well known, one of them to the whole nation, and the other to a very numerous circle in the higher walks of life. The first is Sir Richard Phillips, so well known by his able writings, and equally well known by his exemplary conduct as Sheriff of London, and by his lifelong labours in the cause of real charity and huma- nity. Sir Richard had, I think, -two sons, whose veins were impregnated by the grantee himself. At any rate, he had one, who had, several years after Jenner had given him the insuring matter, a very hard struggle for his life, under the hands of the good old-fashioned, seam- giving, and dimple-dipping smallpox. The second is Philip Codd, Esq., formerly of Kensington, and now of Rumsted Court, near Maidstone, in Kent, who has a son that had a very narrow escape under the real smallpox, about four years ago, and who also had been cowpoxed by Jenner himself. This last-mentioned gentleman I have known, and most sincerely respected, from the time of our both being about eighteen years of age. When the young gentleman, of whom I am now speaking, was very young, I, having him on my knee one day, asked his kind and excellent mother whether he had been inoculated. "Oh, no!" said she, "we are going to have him vaccinated? Whereupon I, going into the garden to the father, said, " I do hope, Codd, that you are not going to have that beastly cow-stuff put into that fine boy." " Why," said he, " you see, Cobbett, it is to be   William Cobbctt.   9   done by Jcnner Himself." What answer I gave, what names and epithets I bestowed upon Tenner and his quackery, I will leave the reader to imagine.  Now, Jiere are instances enough ; but every reader has heard of, if not seen, scores of others. Young Mr. Codd caught the smallpox at a school; and if I recollect rightly, there were several other " vaccinated " youths who did the same at the same time. Quackery, how ever, has always a shuffle left. Now that the cow- pox has been proved to be no guarantee against the  smallpox , it makes it "milder" when it comes ! A pretty shuffle, indeed, this ! You are to be all your life in fear of it, having as your sole consolation, that when it comes (and it may overtake you in a camp, or on the seas), it will be "milder/'' It was not too mild to kill at Ring- wood, and its mildness, in the case of young Mr. Codd, did not restrain it from blinding him for a suitable number of days. I shall not easily forget the alarm and anxiety of the father and mother upon this occasion ; both of them the best of parents, and both of them now punished for having yielded to this fashionable quackery. I will not say, justly punished ; for affection for their children, in which respect they were never surpassed by any parents on earth, was the cause of their listening to the danger-obviating quackery. This, too, is the case with other parents ; but parents should be under the influ- ence of reason and experience, as well as under that of affection ; and now, at any rate, they ought to set this really dangerous quackery at naught."  In a letter addressed to Mr. Wilberforce, M.P., on the subject of the cowpox, and the expediency of promoting it by Act of Parliament, Cobbett says, " Give me leave to ask you how you can reconcile a proposition like this to the spirit of that constitutio?i, of which you profess to be so great an admirer, and to that freedoin of which you wish to be regarded as one of the principal supporters ? What I am opposed to, and what I am alarmed at, is the proposition to obtain an Act of Parliament, which would,   I o   Sit Robert Peel.   in its operation, be nothing short of a compulsion on every man to suffer the veins of his child to be impreg- nated with the disease of a beast; a measure to be adopted in no country where the people are no/ vassals or slaves." And now the very things he foresaw and dreaded and warned us against, have come to pass. Everything now is COMPULSION, that hated word which should be tolerated only by a nation of slaves.   SIR ROBERT PEEL AND THE COMPULSORY VACCINATION ACT.  Sir Robert Peel, " when some one proposed to make vaccination compulsory, as it is in some despotic countries, objected, remarking that such a preceding would be so opposite to the mental habits of the British people, and the freedom of opinion in which they rightly gloried, that he would be no party to such compulsion." - Royal Jennerian Institution's Report, January, 1854.  Three years after the death of that great statesman, the Compulsory Vaccination Act of 1853 was smuggled through Parliament. The working of this Act is exem- plified in the following extract from a letter dated "Barnsley, May 5, 1857," and signed " ./Eneas Daly":-  "Mr. Joseph Frith had a child vaccinated in 1848, which died in fourteen days. He obtained a doctor's certificate, stating that the child died from the effects of vaccination. He was summoned by the Registrar in January last. He told the magistrates that he had one child killed by vaccination, and he feared, that if forced to vaccinate another, it also would be killed. He was forced to comply, and in less than three weeks, the child, though previously perfectly healthy, died of fits, similar to attacks to which some of the family of the child from whom the vaccine matter was taken were subject."- John Gibbs,Ju?ie 24, 1857.   EniLiitus Professor F. IV. Newman.   j 1   PROFESSOR F. W. NEWMAN TO MR. WILLIAM TEBB.  "Dea£ Sir, - You desire some expression of opinion from nie on the subject of your repeated prosecutions for non-vaccination of your daughter. You hardly look for reiteration of my wonder and my indignation that legislators of this country should dishonour themselves and betray the trust committed to them by delegating legislation to medical experts, and should be ignorant that they are committing usurpation by legislating against perfect health. The necessity of disestablishing and disendowing the medical clique which has fastened itself round the neck of this nation, and afflicted us by foul tyranny under false pretences of averting contagion, is the lesson which, I trust, is everywhere being learnt. Jiut the fact which most presses on me from reading the language of magistrates and guardians is the immoral complacency with which they think they can clear their consciences from the guilt of oppression by explaining that ' they do but execute the law, and it is their duty to execute it, without judging if it's right or wrong.' Can they be ignorant that this fatuous renunciation of the duty of obeying God rather than man, has always been the strength of every most wicked tyranny? No man can get rid of personal responsibility before God in this way. Every one of these men would see it if a case were proposed in another nation and another class of actions. To poison the blood of healthy children is a wickedness which no honourable man ought to justify by saying that the State commands it ; nor therefore ought he to compel a parent to do such a deed. No man is obliged to continue in the post of magistrate or guardian. If he is com- manded to act oppressively, he can resign his post, and ought to resign it. Nothing is clearer to any one who will open his eyes than that what is now called vaccination has no effect in lessening smallpox, and has frequent and terrible effect in doing mischief. The doctors who urge vaccination do not believe in it, for they advise re-vaccination. It aims to infuse diseases which no legislator has a right to do, whatever bold themes or falsehoods medical fanatics may advance. To unprejudiced common sense the case is perfectly clear. Neither the Pope nor the head of the Jesuits, noi a Catholic director, nor an English Parliament, in commanding tyrannical deeds can free the under-agents from the responsibilities of wicked action. Each man has to bear his own guilt, in compul- sory vaccination, as much as in burning heretics or in massacring Jews. Besides, all men in authority ought to know that this per- nicious and usurping law was passed without publicity and free debate, and that the Parliament did not know the dangers of various contagions from this false vaccination, of which the enforcement degrades law, and makes Parliament itself odious. A patriot,   I 2   Florence Nightingale and John Bright.   methinks, would brave the authority of Parliament to save the honour of Parliament. I am sorry for you as an individual, but I do not wish this wickedness to become inveterate by mildness in the enforcement. - I am sincerely yours, F. W. Newman.  r.  "Weston-super-Mare, Jan. 23, 1879."  Florence Nightingale, a great name in the cause of sanitation, in a letter to J. Pickering Esq., F.S.S., of Leeds, says : - " Every one who knows anything of public health questions, will agree in your views as to the practical unity of epidemics, and their determining causes, and that exemption from all alike must be sought, not by any one thing, such as vaccination, but by inquiring into and removing the causes of epidemic susceptibility generally."  " Hawarden, April iyt/i, 1876. The Right Hon. W. E. GLADSTONE writes-  " Sir, - I regard compulsory and penal provisions, such as those of the Vaccination Act, with mistrust and mis- giving, and were I engaged on an inquiry I should require very clear proof of their necessity before giving them my approval ; but I am not able to undertake to enter upon an examination of the question.  " I remain, sir, your obedient and faithful,  W. E. GLADSTONE."  " H. Pitman, Esq."  The Right Hon. JOHN BRIGHT writes of repeated prosecutions-" The law is monstrous and ought to be repealed."  The Vicar of Winston, Suffolk (the Rev. Munde- ford Allen) writes - " I thank God that there are men in our age who have the boldness to stand out against the diabolical vaccination laws."   The " Oldham Chronicle"   13   MR. COBBETT, M.R AND THE OLDHAM CHRONICLE ON COMPULSORY VACCI- NATION.  " Another cognate point which we fully agree with Mr. Cobbett in denouncing, is the compulsory vaccination laws. The case of the opponents of vaccination is very strong. It has never been shown that it is really the great antidote for smallpox which its most interested advocates claim for it. Vast sums of money are annually spent in this and other districts as payments for what are termed 'successful' vaccination, and on this point alone there is the usual amount of waste which generally accompanies every move in the direction of what is miscalled sanitary reform. But, apart from all this, we hold that the parents are the only natural guardians of their children, and it is monstrous for the minions of the law to compei them to submit their precious charges to an operation which they believe to be injurious in its effects, and even immoral to attempt. It is not a question whether such opponents are right or wrong. They may be wrong, but conscientiously holding the views they do, it is flagrant injustice and downright tyranny for the law to step in and force them to do an act to which they have every right to object. It is such interferences with the liberty of the subject, boldly admitted to be such by Mr. Forster in his essentially Tory speech to the Odd- fellows at Otley, that Liberalism has really to thank for its present position. There is little chance for it in the future, and it does not deserve to succeed, until it boldly recognises the true principles of its own faith, and learns to throw away, as a temptation which it must resolutely avoid, every scheme of legislation, no matter how fair it may look in other respects, which has for its basis any violation of the rights and liberties of the individual." - Oldham Chronicle, Sept. 1875.   ''4   The *' Merthyr Times."   THE MERTHYR TIMES.. Sept. 30, 187 1.  " It is time that those who do not believe in the. efficacy of vaccination should open their eyes to what is transpiring in our midst. At the Aberdare Police Court last week, Mr. Churchill was charged with neglecting to comply with the Compulsory Vaccination Act. The defendant admitted that the child was unvaccinated, but stated that he objected to have it done because his brother was mined by it. He was now quite deaf, and had been so since he was two months old, when he was vac- cinated. As the Act specifies that the fine should be inflicted if the defendant did not render a reasonable excuse, we certainly think the defendant in this case did state a reasonable, and therefore a valid, excuse ; the Bench thought otherwise, and having pointed out the gotid effects of vaccination, inflicted a fine of 15s. and costs. We do not know where Mr. Fowler has seen the good effects of vaccination, for we must confess that we have never yet seen any. On the other hand, we have unmistakable evidence that vaccination has been the means of ruining and crippling many persons for life, and of spreading disease and death among children previously healthy, instances of which have already appeared in our columns. We confidently believe that vaccination is no protection whatever against smallpox, and if it were, the remedy would be worse than the disease In addition to the evidence we are continually receiving as to the injuries resulting from vaccination, we have, from personal observation, seen sufficient amongst our own family relations to convince us of the injuries resulting from this loathsome practice. We have a sister- in-law whose parents are perfectly healthy and free from disease, and who had also herself been perfectly healthy previous to vaccination, who has been made a cripple for life by the filthy matter introduced into her system by vaccination.''   The " Weekly Dispatch." i 5  THE WEEKLY DISPATCH, Oct. r, r 8 7 i,  " We are gratified to find that the minds of our readers seem perfectly cognisant of the vast evils attending a medical despotism enforced by State surveillance If vaccination protects us from smallpox, those who want vaccination can get it, and, according to their theory they need not fear the presence of non-vaccinators from whom they are already safe. Their vaccination, if worth anything, has secured them already. Why desire to force their views on people who don't want them, and from whom, on their own showing, they can receive no S^ lf 11 in j. ur y ? I" this view; which is based on that held by vaccinators, any interference with people of the other way of thinking is a needless impertinence- a gross and infamous cruelty. Medical orthodoxy is in its latest operation wholly indefensible: in fact it is for less defensible than any ecclesiastical orthodoxy whatever It is a vile outrage on the liberty of the subject aS there is no enormity that the sam/one-s ided pretenc of expediency might not be held to sanction Vaccinato"  SEStaTt " therefore altogetei-  interested in opposing a paternal despotism which beginning with vaccination, has no definite logical limit *-;"• Th , ese ar [°S ant Proceedings are intolerable esoe- • l e tt) ere th 1, Ilbert y- a "d as some people \hink he he aUh as well as the liberty-of the people is ulti-  tT^Z^K^(tm) We haVG had m 4 agitatLs- some laudable, others questionable, on everv subierf  t ^ le of 0 >yh, S respectable planet; but personal l b ^ *g forced upon the people. * *   i6   Rektor P. A. Siljestrihn.   we have ample opportunities of knowing, have a strong feeling on the point, and that naturally."   REKTOR P. A. SILJESTROM.  The Vaccination Question, p. 91.  " The opponents of vaccination assert that this opera- tion is not only useless, but injurious, by causing diseases, and sometimes death ; and it is allowed by the defenders of vaccination, that syphilis can be communicated through vaccination if caution is not observed. We do not allow ourselves to pronounce judgment in this matter, but if only one single well-established case of syphilis has been communicated, this is a sufficient reason for the abolition of compulsory vaccination. Because when it is known what extraordinary difficulties lie in the way of tfle full and certain confirmation of such a fact, there is reason to suspect, that this one case may, in reality, represent hundreds of cases. Under such circumstances, there is always reason to entertain a fear : a justifiable fear ; as it is certainly better to die from smallpox, how- ever horrible that complaint may be, than to live with syphilis, to he unutterable ruin of one's descendants in the third and fourth generation."   P. A. TAYLOR, M.P.  Speech in the House of Commons, April 7, 1879.  " In my opinion every element which could justify the compulsory enforcement of vaccination, and could justify the State in standing between parents and the health of their children, is wanting in the present condi- tion of the science and the statistics of vaccination."   Price id. each; 9d. per dozen ; 6s. per hundred.   VACCINATION TRACTS   OPINIONS OF STATESMEN, POLITICIANS, PUBLICISTS, POPES, STATISTICIANS, AND SANITARIANS.  No. 2.   No. 4.1   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1877   OPINIONS OF STATESMEN, ETC.   SPEECH OF SIR T. CHAMBERS, M.R, COMMON SERGEANT OF THE CITY OF LONDON.  Delivered in the House of Commons, August i$th, 1871.  On the order of the day for considering the Vaccination Act (1867) Amendment Bill : -  Mr. T. Chambers complained that there had been no adequate opportunity for discussing this important Bill. The Bill is a measure, he said, to compel parents to have one disease communicated to their children in order to prevent the contingency of their catching another; and such legislation is objected to strongly by thousands of persons throughout the land, who ought to be afforded an opportunity of giving expression to their opinion. It is idle to attempt to discuss the Bill at present, but the more the subject is investigated, the more it is found to be surrounded by difficulties, and to depend upon intricate medical doctrines still the subject of controversy. However as matters stand, there is nothing left to me but to protest against the course which is being pursued. The Bill, however, is a practical admission that we have been wrong in past legislation.  At a subsequent period of the debate,  Mr. Chambers said - I think the argument of the hon. baronet opposite (Sir M. H. Beach) tends directly to refute his own conclusions. He says, that in spite of the penal legislation of the last few years, a large propor- tion of the population still remains unvaccinated. If this be so, it is clear that the Legislature and the Government have undertaken a task which is beyond their power. They have made laws ; extended and   Sir Thomas Chambers.   3   amended those laws; imposed heavy and cumulative penalties ; distributed the country into districts ; ap- pointed an army of medical and other agents ; set up an elaborate apparatus for vaccination, registration, and re-vaccination ; and, in spite of all this, the work is not effectually done. The labour and the cost are to a great extent thrown away ; and the failure arises from no want of pains and zeal on the part of the Government, who have laboured earnestly at the task for many years. It arises from the task being one which no public authority can effectually accomplish. But this admission is well nigh fatal to the scheme. For what prospect is there that the future will be more successful than the past? The system advocated and supported by the hon. baronet is by him pronounced a failure ; and he asks for new provisions and enlarged powers, and more agents and larger outlay, to make the law more effective for its purpose. But the next observation to be made on the hon. baronet's argument is still more important. If the official statistics prove anything conclusively and beyond the possibility of dispute, they prove that a vastly larger number of vaccinated persons than of un vaccinated were attacked by smallpox during the recent epidemic ; and that the fatal attacks of that disease were far more numerous among the vaccinated than among the un- vaccinated. I find that of 155 persons admitted at the smallpox hospital in the parish of St. James's, Piccadilly, 145 were vaccinated. At the Hampstead Hospital, up to the 13th May last, out of 2965 admissions, 2347 were vaccinated. In Marylebone, 92 per cent of those attacked by smallpox were vaccinated. Can any one after this be found to contend that vaccination is a protection against smallpox ? Nor is it any satisfactory explanation of these figures to argue that the vaccination kvas ineffectual and vain. For if the operation is, in so targe a proportion of cases, inadequate for its purpose, Ithen the system is but a delusive one, leaving the pubjects of the process utterly without security that they   4 Sir Thomas Chambers.  are protected against smallpox infection. Nay, it is even more discouraging that the system should break down through improper and inefficient vaccine opera- tions, than through the neglect or reluctance' of the population to submit to them. For the latter evil a remedy may possibly be found in increased parochial vigilance, and a more perfect scheme of registration ; but for the former, whether it be attributable to bad lymph, or its imperfect introduction into the blood, it is impossible to secure, or to suggest, any adequate correc- tion It is at best a limping system, whether it be lame on one leg or both. But while I contend with con- fidence that the returns show that the having been vaccinated affords no certain protection against an attack of smallpox, yet I must frankly admit that the same returns show that the mortality from smallpox is in a far smaller proportion of those attacked among the vac- cinated, than among the unvaccinated. Yet whilst, in candour, this must be admitted, it should also be mentioned that in Prussia, the most perfectly vaccinated country in Europe, the fatality from smallpox was ex- ceptionally large during the recent epidemic. In Berlin 164 persons died of the disease m one week, being at the rate of nearly 12,000 in the million per annum or nearly three times greater than the mortality of London from the same cause; and yet in that city every one vaT vaccinated and re-vaccinated under the stnngen ^visions of the law. If, then, it be quite plain that the cowpox is no protection against an attack of small nox or even against death from smallpox, are there any onions against it stronger than that of its mere ?mpoS? It has been considered absurd to say that Snation can convey to the patient any other disease than cowpox. The expression of any such opinion vas trea ed with derision and contempt by the medical SessTon ; yet one of the most eminent surgeons in Paris who had been a warm advocate for vaccination mT hid committed himself publicly to an emphatic   Sir Thomas Chambers.   5   denial that vaccine lymph could communicate other diseases, was afterwards compelled at first to modify, and afterwards to retract, that opinion, and to admit that syphilis might be, and was occasionally, so conveyed. But surely this is a most formidable admission. Its appalling significance can hardly be overrated; more especially if it be difficult, or even impossible, to dis- tinguish between pure and impure lymph. If this risk is not serious enough to justify the general discourage- ment of the practice of vaccination, or its prohibition, yet certainly (and this is all I argue) it is more than enough to make it both impolitic and unjust to enforce it upon reluctant parents by cumulative penalties. The mere chance that in giving cowpox to their babies, syphilis may be inadvertently introduced into their blood, would surely excuse the anxious reluctance of a mother to expose her infant to so dreadful a contingency ; and make any punishment for her refusal under such circumstances, to say the least a harsh, if not a cruel, exercise of public authority. Many cases are continually occurring to show that indiscriminate vaccination is attended with peril to health, or even to life. The late Sir Culling Eardley, who submitted to vaccination in order to remove the objections of his servants to submit to it, died in a few days. I have myself known many persons lately who have been brought to the edge of the grave, and remained dangerously ill for months, in consequence of having been re-vaccinated. Whether their illness was the result of impure lymph, or an impure state of their own blood, I cannot say j nor is it material to the argument, for in either case the sine qua non of the illness was the vaccination. It is stated in every form of dogmatic assertion of which the language is capable, that smallpox is a perfectly preventible disease ; and that it may be, and has been in many cases, entirely stamped out. Yet if any statement ever was refuted, this has been. Sweden was the favourite example cited in support of this theory; yet, though   6   Sir Thomas Chambers.   everybody in that country is vaccinated, when smallpox becomes epidemic it prevails there as well as in other places. Its attacks there, as elsewhere, are periodical. A few cases a year for a series of years, and* then a virulent outbreak lasting a year or more. This is not stamping out a disease. I have admitted that vaccination lessens the mortality from smallpox. The value of this admission must not be overrated. The use of remedies is to diminish mortality - not to diminish mortality from one disease, or from another, but to diminish the mortality from all causes, to leave more persons alive at the end of the year than would have been alive without the remedies. It is clear that nothing is gained by saving a life from the ravages of smallpox, if it falls a prey to consumption. But how stands the case under consideration when viewed in this light? It is argued that to get rid of smallpox is to diminish the general mortality; yet statistics show, that in proportion as smallpox has been absent, scarlet fever, low fever, typhus, and other diseases, have prevailed. It is notorious that epidemics do not raise the general mortality. This is a matter worthy of the serious consideration of the medical profession. They should also inquire how it comes to pass that, with so many improved sanitary conditions, consumption has so steadily and alarmingly increased among us. It may be utterly wrong to attribute this to the practice of  vaccination tion ; but if vaccination is still to be enforced by cumulative penalties, every shadow of excuse for con- tending that there is any connection between them ought to be removed. It can hardly be said that this has yet been done. In conclusion : let me recommend to the Government not to resort to severe forms of compulsion in this matter; but (as they are now proposing) to modify and relax the present statute. When the public are satisfied that vaccination is bene- ficial, and that the health and lives of their children are involved in submitting to it, then they will cheerfully submit; but so long as they doubt its efficacy, or   Emeritus Professor Francis W. Newman.   7   apprehend serious results from its adoption, no law, however severe, will make it universal. We have passed an Act for the education of the people. Let its author, the Vicg-President of the Council, rely on the enlighten- ment of the people ; let him circulate information, and provide facilities, and in every way encourage the practice of vaccination, as a surer mode of accomplishing his object than the framing and enforcing of penal enactments, the severity of which the Government them- selves disapprove of, and seek to relax.   FROM "LEGISLATIVE MALVERSATION."  A letter by Professor F. W. Newman, in Liverpool Argus, 25th November 1876.  We remark, rightly and pointedly, that public law may, and, so far as possible, ought to uphold national morals ; but to command any form of vice is palpable usurpation, as well as gross iniquity. The same may be said of forbidding perfect health. There was an enactment which the late Sir Robert Peel declared impossible, when some eager medical men tried to press upon him its desirableness. Does the reader understand to what we allude? Certain modern physicians and surgeons - especially those who have the ear of Government by getting into permanent salaried offices - have a theory that a perfectly healthy person is a dangerous focus of disease, because, say they, he may catch smallpox, and, after catching it, may communicate it to others ; there- fore he ought to be compulsorily vaccinated, after which, say they, for a certain (unknown) time he cannot catch smallpox ; that is, so long as the vaccine virus remains active in him. The instant he recovers perfect health, at least so far as to throw off the cowpox (so called), he is again liable to catch smallpox ; therefore again becomes a focus of infection, and ought to be again   8 Emeritus Professor Francis W. Newman.  vaccinated - if they could have their will. The long and short is, that the faculty hold up as the desirable object, to keep us perpetually in c<nv-pox, lest in our intervals of perfect health we catch smallpox. This delightful scheme of theirs, of course, is not carried out ; for no Parliament will submit to be itself under the perpetual hand of the vaccinator. Heads of the War Office, Post Office, and other great establishments, may zealously order soldiers, clerks, policemen, or postmen to be vaccinated, but they have no notion of enduring it them- selves - hence no Act of Parliament can be carried for the compulsory vaccination or re-vaccination of adults. It would cause a universal insurrection. Yet, without public discussion or notoriety, in some empty house, by intrigue and cunning of some sort, an Act for the compulsory vaccination of infants was carried, and is now the law of the land. Attempts are made to enforce the same on the Indians, and may aid to heap fresh and fresh detestation on our heads, with terrible future results. It is easy to point out the many weak places of this marvellous theory, which will hereafter bring contempt on the collective medical faculty. But what we wish now to make prominent is, that no legislator ought for a moment to listen to the pretences, much less to the statistics, of medical men, when the cardinal idea of their favourite vaccination and re-vaccination is the pestilen- tiousness of perfect health. A physician hereby pronounces himself a dolt. The modern doctrine is not Jenner's - he was not so absurd. He thought, and pronounced solemnly, that cowpox once endured made the person for ever totally insusceptible of smallpox. This, if true, was marvellous ; but not transparently false or ridiculous. But the experience of a few years demonstrated that Jenner's confidence was unfounded - that many persons had smallpox after cowpox ; nor has any proof ever been given that the lessening of the smallpox, early in this century, was caused by the introduction of vaccination. Improved treatment was a sufficient reason why  smallpox  became less fatal, and the disuse of inoculating for   Emeritus Professor Francis W. Newman. 9  smallpox fully explained why it became rarer. Thus, both Jenner's doctrine and Jenner's practice ought to have been simultaneously abandoned ; nor was there ever a time at which eminent physicians did not protest against both - as they do emphatically now. But, instead of abandoning the practice, based on a theory proved to be false, our doctors retained the practice and tried to mend up the theory, hereby producing a paradox of which Jenner might have been ashamed. Unable to deny that smallpox might follow cowpox, they modified the theory into this - that smallpox cannot enter the system so long as the virus of cowpox is active in it.* How long this lasts, no one can tell - it is mere guess- work. The time differs in different persons. Apparently, those who are healthiest, those in whom vitality is most vigorous, throw off this disease, as every disease, most quickly. Therefore, according to our wise physicians, they ought the more quickly to be re-vaccinated. No wriggling of logic can enable these doctors to escape the conclusion that they dread perfect health as a pestilence. Do they wish to force others to remember that public health never fills their pockets, but public ill-health does? The disgraceful utterance that " infants are a focus of pestilence until they are poxy," is repeated by many zealous vaccinators, and no denial and scornful disavowal of it is heard from official and influential quarters. They pretend to argue from statistics; but all men of good sense and information know that statistics in the hands of experts who have power to dictate what particulars shall be made prominent and what not, can be manipulated to prove anything. Meanwhile, we have the broad fact that, since vaccination has been made compulsory,  smallpox  has become more general and more fatal ; which, even if statistics were as favourable to their case as these physicians pretend, would sufficiently rebut their argu- ment. But can we wonder that smallpox increases?  * Even this seems to be disproved by the fact that cowpox and smallpox may run their course side by side in the same organism without the one in the least affecting the other. - Ed.   to Emeritus Professor Francis W. Newman.  Are they not themselves purposely implanting disease in all our infants ? For what is their pretended vaccine? They take corrupt matter from a child, and put it into a cow ; cause disease in the cow ; then take corrupt master from the cow, and call it pure lymph ! That is one way of poisoning children's blood. But Act of Parliament now commands or permits what is called vaccination from arm to arm. In this way all the diseases which ought to be confined as much as possible are imparted as widely as possible, to the risk of universal degradation j{ the national health. After this we cannot wonder that children are made weakly in constitution ; some die of erysipelas j others are crippled ; others are prepared to take any disease that is abroad - and smallpox among the rest. Nor are there wanting able persons who insist that cowpox is only smallpox modified ; so that the doctors themselves are now sowing it broadcast.  But, not to get deeper into the medical argument, it suffices to insist that it is beyond the legitimate power of Parliament to command, the infusion of any disease. To imagine that another disease can thus be stopped, is against the first laws of physiology - against the attest- ations of physicians in general when they treat of any- thing but smallpox - and against the common sense of mankind. In cholera or plague, we are told that the worst lives fall first. The purest blood, the highest vit- ality, best resists infection from without. Nay, as the years of cholera were not years of exceptional mortality, neither are years of smallpox ! There is no case made out why Parliament should legislate about smallpox more than about consumption, or about scarlet fever, which is ten times as fatal. Not but that, if it would legislate against the evil circumstances and evil habits which generate smallpox or dispose a whole population to accept it, we should necessarily listen with respect and hope ; but to believe men who pretend to wisdom, while they admit no cause of smallpox but contagion, is contemptible. Our physicians seem to run mad about   Rektor P. A. Siljestrom.   ii   contagion - as if a person, now healthy, cannot become unhealthy by evil habits and deeds. How else did smallpox first arise? Evidently not by transmission.. Contagion is one cause of disease ; it never can be the only cause. Impurity in one form or other - whether of air, of water, of food, or uncleanness - must always be the commonest cause. To infuse into our children's blood corrupt matter in which no physician on earth can know or guess what evil may lurk, is simple infatuation. Tampering with the blood is an abomination. To re- command it is enough to lay low the credit of any medical man. To command it is a gross usurpation in a legislative body. So long as our bodies are healthy, Parliament has no right to command assault upon them under the pretext of public health. To punish parents for struggling to keep their children's blood inviolate, is a form of tyranny unheard of until modern times, and emphatically disgraceful as it is impious.  F. W. Newman.   EXTRACTS FROM "THE VACCINATION QUESTION." *  An Essay by P. A. Siljestrom, M.A., late member of the Swedish  Parliament.  Rektor Siljestrom has, in this essay, reviewed, in an exhaustive manner, the Official Statistics of Sweden, relative to smallpox, which in that country date from the year 1 749, and has arrived at the conclusion that, as far as Sweden is concerned, vaccination has neither prevented smallpox, nor diminished its fatality, and that its effects on the geticral mortality are likewise nil.  The entire essay is well worth careful study, as throw- ing much light on the erroneous views which are often drawn from statistics imperfectly understood. W. Y.  We quote from page 79 the following on re-vaccination: - If the necessity of re-vaccination after a certain lapse of time- say, for instance, ten years- is assumed, and * London : F. Pitman, 20 Paternoster Row, 1S75.   1 2   Rektor P. A. Siljestrdm.   it be thus granted that the original vaccination loses its effect after ten years, then all patients who are above ten years, if they were vaccinated as children, must actually be regarded as "unvaccinated;" and tf, there- fore, as is very likely they are, on account of the vacci- nation marks found upon them, considered as vaccinated, then it is quite possible that they contribute very con- siderably, though very unjustly, to the results in favour of vaccination appearing in the returns. Let us see what is the logic of this. Caius gets the smallpox and recovers : no wonder, it is said, for Caius was vaccinated. But Caius gets the smallpox and dies : no wonder, it is again said, for Caius had neglected to have himself re- vaccinated. Whatever happens, vaccination must be right. It is to be hoped that the parties concerned have not been guilty of such a very serious mistake as regards the returns of medical practitioners, and the conclusions that may be drawn from them. But in general this objection is of so serious a nature, that it is very difficult to say how any reliable conclusions can be drawn from medical practice, as long as it is not decided either after the lapse of how long a time re-vaccination ought to be per- formed, or whether this time is the same for all individuals. These difficulties did not exist as long as people were contented with the vaccination theory alone. Since the introduction of the re-vaccination theory the whole matter has become hopelessly involved.  There is another circumstance which is equally de- serving of attention. We have endeavoured in the previous pages to show the probability (and we believe that it can hardly be denied) that it is essentially among the lowest and poorest classes that the unvaccinated cases are to be found. But the hospital is recruited exclusively from the poorer classes, and it is thus, most likely, according to what has just been said, that the " unvaccinated " category consists of persons belonging in every respect to the lowest classes of the community. Now if it be the needy, the dirty, the disorderly, the immoral, who especially represent the "unvaccinated,"   Rektor P. A. Siljestrdin.   '3   how can we for a moment be surprised that the mortality in the case of smallpox (or whatever other disease it may be) should be greater among persons of this kind than an^ong the well-to-do, or, at least, less indigent classes? And when so much is said about the great mortality among "unvaccinated children," has the amount of vitality been taken into account which, independently of any question of vaccination or non-vaccination, is likely to be found among these unhappy children of vice and want, with their constitutional weaknesses and their constitutional tendency to disease? Is it necessary, in order to explain the greater mortality among such in- dividuals, to seek for any other reasons than simply those that have just been stated? It is evident, that as long as these circumstances are not taken into considera- tion, as long as it cannot be demonstrated that the vaccinated and the unvaccinated are under the same conditions with regard to these matters, the numbers in question in reality prove nothing. This circumstance renders the investigations so much more difficult, that we cannot, without great hesitation, accept the returns which are made, be it by the hospital, or by private medical practitioners; and unless a great number of observations can be made with perfect impartiality in the case of patients whose position in life is at least tolerably equal, it will be quite impossible to draw any conclusions worthy of confidence.   RESULTS OF INQUIRY INTO THE QUESTION OF VACCINATION.  By Rektor P. A. Siljestrom. [Extract from a Letter to Dr. J. J. Garth Wilkinson, April 1877.)  1. The decrease of the general mortality in Sweden is not due to vaccination.  2. The mortality from smallpox among vaccinaied patients is as great as among the unvaccinated (and un- inoculated) in the pre-vaccination time.   14   Rektor P. A. Siljestrbm.   3. The same with regard to patients who previously have had natural smallpox.  4. The decrease of the smallpox in Sweden in the beginning of the present century cannot be explained by vaccination.  5. smallpox continued unabated in Finland, notwith- standing vaccination was as early introduced and more spread than in Sweden, at the time when it is supposed that vaccination caused the smallpox to disappear in the last-named country.  6. smallpox decreased during the latter part of the eighteenth century, not only in Sweden, but probably also in several other European countries, England in- cluded, until the arrival of those influences which brought about the great epidemic of 1800.  7. In the year 1796 an uncommonly severe epidemic in India was followed by a period of forty or fifty years during which no very fatal epidemics are recorded.  8. After the epidemic of 1800 a comparatively quies- cent period of about forty or fifty years ensued in Europe, even in countries where vaccination had been so lately introduced that its being taken into consideration as an efficient cause is out of the question.  9. The Registrar-General's office in Sweden has publicly declared in its official publications that to explain certain statistical data it is necessary to suppose, either that the effect of vaccination itself is little or none, or that the working of the vaccination system is highly defective. Now I think that if either supposition be true, after a practice of vaccination for fifty years (the report from which the above is quoted dates from 1856) and nearly forty years of compulsion, there can be no ground for more compulsion.  10. The proofs alleged in favour of vaccination are either no proofs, or evidently, or most probably, based on fallacies and mistakes.  11. All the facts from which these conclusions have been deduced are taken either from official documents, or from authors who are partisans of vaccination.   Adolph, Count Zedlwitz.   !5   The suggestion in my pamphlet that smallpox would still more increase (in Sweden) during the present decade, will no doubt be confirmed in a notable manner. In StocWiolm alone the deaths from smallpox were as many as would correspond to about- 30,000 in London !   ADOLPH, COUNT ZEDTWITZ.  ''Three cheers for the Seven brave Champions of Keighley, who, with their often-proved old English spirit of unwavering firmness and loyalty to sincere conviction, fearlessly take their stand for what they regard as a sacred duty, and thus take upon themselves a martyrdom which will bring forth good for all mankind.  "For let medical advocates exhaust themselves as they may in sophisms, it nevertheless remains an eternal  TRUTH, THAT THE STATE HAS NO RIGHT TO PRESCRIBE A  medical creed to any man ; and no man, with any self- respect, who has once seen through the stupid superstition, the shameless deceit of vaccination, will, without resisting to the uttermost, ever consent to the degradation of allowing those near a?id dear to him to be subjected to it, or lend a hand to the coercion of others.  " Only by such manly and resolute resistance as that which I so greatly admire in English anti-vaccinators, will misguided legislators be brought to the conviction that they are upon a false track ; while, on the other hand, it holds out a solemn warning to those medical advisers, who during many past decades have, by an unexampled tissue of lying and deceit, deluded the Governments of all countries, and artfully bolstered up belief in a blessing which never existed, while devoting thousands of children to disease and death, - a warning that the time may come, when they (instead of anti-vaccinators) shall stand in the dock, to answer for all the witting untruths and in- tentional falsifications of statistics with which they now gloss over their audacious invasions of parental rights, and cause such unspeakable misery in families.  " The atrocities of the vaccinators are no less   t6   Baron Von Koemg.   GREAT THAN THOSE OF THE TURKS, AND THEIR VICTIMS ARE A THOUSAND-FOLD MORE NUMEROUS ! Let, thm, the  great-hearted English nation, whose voice is always raised on the side of humanity, next fix its ai?n at thj£ inter- national BARBARITY CALLED VACCINATION, which its Parliament sanctions !  "Adolph, Count Zedtwitz. ;< Baden, near Vienna, Sept. gih, 1876."   BARON VON KOENIG ON VACCINATION.  Inoculation is a remnant of the great mediaeval supersti- tions, from which every claim to State protection ought to be withdrawn, and the State itself ought to be relieved from the necessity of compulsion, and cease to be a partizan.  We do not wish to force these our convictions of the noxious nature of inoculation upon any one, least of all upon those with whom the support of this superstition has become a dogma, by means of which a large caste derives in great measure its means of subsistence. It is for this latter reason that the members of this caste, with a few honourable exceptions, are slow to respond to the call to offer up of their own accord this profitable dogma at the shrine of truth, humanity, and the national wel- fare, and are content for the present to remain the will- ing or unwilling columnar supports of the vaccination Peter's-penny.  But we can and ought to insist, that as we ask for no compulsory suppression of vaccination, the medical pro- fession in like manner ought not to consider itself entitled to demand a compulsory law in favour of the practice, especially as in 1869 their monopolist privileges were withdrawn. On these subjects, convictions, both in in- quiry and in practice, ought to be free. For a free state ought to have one only limitation of its rights and duties, and that is - " Equal rights for all." What is useful and true will force its way by its inherent strength, if the State will hold aloof from partizanship.   Price id. each ; gd. tier dozen ; 6s. per hundred.   VACCINATION TRACTS   CASES OF DISEASE, SUFFERING AND DEATH REPORTED BY THE INJURED FAMILIES.   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1877  [NO. 5.]   PREFACE.   "The Anti- Vaccination Agitation;" from the Daily News of April 4, 1877, with a note on the same by J. J. Garth Wilkinson. - "The guardians of Skipton Union have completed an experiment which must be of interest to the Keighley district, which it closely adjoins. About two months ago the ' vaccinationists ' of the board had a committee formed, partly of anti-vaccinationists and guardians selected from their own ranks. The object of this committee was the investigation of certain cases of supposed injury from vaccination, which the opposing party of the board were in the habit of referring to as an argument against vaccination. After much deliberation the members of the committee have drawn up a report, in which they state the result of their investigation. It appears then, to facilitate the investigation, advertise- ments were inserted in the local papers, asking individuals for information of supposed injury from vaccination. In reply thirteen cases were adduced, but the report states they were greatly exaggerated, and the majority of them were reported by persons not related to the sufferers. Except in one case, of rash, in respect to which the physician consulted could not positively say that all the symptoms were owing to vaccination, the committee have come to the conclusion that no person reported to them has suffered in consequence of vaccination. Four cases looked very strong from the reports, but upon investiga- tion it was found that in two instances the ailment was not complained of until two years after re-vaccination, and it was proved by communications from the medical men who had attended the cases that the illness had nothing whatever to do with vaccination, but appeared to   Preface.   3   be hereditary." [N.B. - Hereditary disease is often called into activity by vaccination.]  Nots. - Comftdsory Vaccination Laws make the attain- ment of truth about vaccination impossible in two ways. First, by covering the whole ground of the investigation with interests and passions, which never yet could elicit the unbiased facts whose interpretation is Truth. Secondly) by spreading medical panic and civic fear among the people, and thus preventing them from coming forth and telling the truth. It is in vain that you advertise for cases of injury resulting from  vaccination tion, when it is well known to all poor people that if they report themselves or their children as injured, they will be "marked men" to the great medical clique, which at present has with it nearly all the influential people in society. And next, if they do come forward, and face ruin for the truth, who are the judges of their cases and statements? Of course, the vaccinating doctors, who are sealed against " injury from  vaccination tion" beforehand. The impossibility of fairness from these judges has been demonstrated of late by every in- i stance which they have touched. And by their bias they have perverted juries from the plain truth. If children : die of erysipelas after vaccination, the source of the I erysipelas is declared to be in the parish, and not on the vaccinating lancet. Or coroner and jury say they can- i not account for the result, because the vaccine was pure. I Thus death in families is mocked by law. No truth can | come by committees of investigation appointed by vaccinators, by their advertisements for injured persons, I or by the judgment of vaccinating physicians as to the i diseases arising after vaccination. The full rights and wrongs of vaccination can never be ascertained until there is sufficient public fairness to abolish compulsory i vaccination laws. J. J. Garth Wilkinson.  ; 76 Wimpole Street, Cavendish Square, W. London, April 10, 1877.   CASES OF DISEASE, SUFFERING, AND DEATH RESULTING FROM VACCINATION.  The following cases of injury and death produced by vaccination were collected in one town, in a few days, for the Rev. W. Hum-e-Rothery, then of Middleton, Manchester, with a view to their presentation as evidence before the Committee of the House of Commons, but which that Committee refused to receive : -  Martha Alice Jackson, daughter of James Jackson, of Stoney-field Rochdale, vaccinated when three weeks old, by Dr. Booth, public vaccinator. About nine days after vaccination, it broke out of a most loathsome disease, designated by the medical attendant, Dr. Morris, as a very bad case of syphilis, caused, the medical man said, by vaccination. It suffered dreadfully until seven months old, and then died a most pitiable object.  Robert Henry Fielding, son of Thomas Fielding, Rad- cliffe Street, Rochdale, was vaccinated when four months old. The arm immediately began to swell towards the fingers, then across the chest and down the right arm, which was very much swollen, and after death the arm burst. The child died one month after vaccination. The medical attendant told the father that vaccination had killed the child. It died January 1870.  Martha Cudworth, daughter of James Cudworth, the Alley, Lower Place, Rochdale, was vaccinated December 1869. The arm became very much swollen and inflamed,   Cases "f Disease and Death from Vaccitiation. 5  and it died in less than three weeks from the time it was vaccinated. Dr. Crompton, the medical attendant, said that vaccination was the cause of its death ; it was vacci- nated by Dr. Booth, the public vaccinator.  Joseph Chadwick, son of John Chadwick, Hartley's Buildings, Buersill, Rochdale, was vaccinated when four months old, and died four weeks after being vaccinated ; was a fine and perfectly healthy child previous to being vaccinated. The arm of the child healed up in a fort- night after being vaccinated, then broke out again, became very much swollen and inflamed, after which convulsions set in, and the child died December 31st, 1867. It was vaccinated by Dr. Morris.  Edwin Kershaw, son of Emmanuel Kershaw, of Green- halgh's Buildings, Oldham Road, Rochdale, was vacci- nated when five months old, in January 1870, and died a fortnight after being vaccinated. The arm of the child was so bad that it began to mortify and burst before death. It was a most deplorable object. Dr. Booth, the public vaccinator, performed the operation of vacci- nation. Dr. Morris, the medical attendant, certified the cause of death as being vaccination, &c.  This is to certify that I, John Ashworth, of Union Street, Rochdale, mechanic, had a child named Daniel Ashworth, which said child was vaccinated by the public vaccinator in December 1869, at the age of twelve weeks, the next day erysipelas inflammation took place, which in fourteen days terminated in death.  Rochdale, March wth, 1871. This is to certify that I, John Robert Witham, had a child called Sarah Ellen Witham, who was vaccinated in December 1869, at the age of fourteen weeks, by the public vaccinator for the borough of Rochdale. Im- mediately after vaccination erysipelas inflammation set   6   Vaccination Tracts.   in, which terminated in death on the eighth day of vacci- nation. This case was certified by Dr. Wood - erysipelas from vaccination.  Soloman Crabtree, of Sun Place, Albert Street, had a child named Hannah Crabtree, vaccinated by the public vaccinator for the borough of Rochdale, at eleven weeks old. The day after the operation convulsions seized the child. It broke out in sores on the arms and other parts of the body, and died in nineteen days after the opera- tion. The child was vaccinated in January 1870.  All the above cases were declared and attested before G. L. Ashworth, Esq., Mayor of Rochdale, on March 13th, 1 87 1.  Further cases collected for the Rev. Wm. Hume- Rotherv, and all solemnly attested before James Butterworth, J. P., county of Lancaster, March 18th, 1871 :-  Joseph Taylor: My child was vaccinated when thirteen weeks old : in two weeks it was dead. After vaccination it was seized with convulsions, which continued until death.  Richard Matthew : My child was vaccinated at the same time as the above, and with the same kind of matter : it also was seized with convulsions, which con- tinued until death. After death it went as black as a coal ; it was such a mass of corruption that the burial suit had to be thrown over it instead of being put on.  We believe that vaccination killed them both.  , c . f Joseph Taylor,  (bigneaj j Richard Matthew.  Smallbridge, March \2tJ1, 1871.  Sarah Ann Roydes was vaccinated when about three years of age ; before vaccination was a fine healthy child; after, its eyes swelled up, and it was troubled with fits for nine days ; it completely lost all power of speech, and   Cases of Disease and Death from Vaccination. 7   we had to carry her up and down like a new-born child. She had an abscess in her head which had to be lanced. She has never been well since, her memory is destroyed for life, and she is now twenty-three years of age.  We, the parents, believe that vaccination has been the cause of our daughter's imbecility.  (Signed) Abraham Roydes.  Smallbridge, March 12th, 1871.  I, Sarah Whipp, do hereby testify that my child, Betty  Whipp, was vaccinated when about three years old.  Before vaccination it was a fine healthy child, but  immediately after vaccination it broke out of erysipelas  all over its body ; afterwards it also suffered from sore  eyes ; in short, after vaccination it was always sick, and  at the age of twelve years it died of smallpox. - Yours  truly, (Signed) Sarah Whipp.  Brickfield Road, Rochdale, March llth, 1871.  Mary Jackson : My child was a strong healthy child before vaccination. After vaccination it broke out in boils in the left leg, and will be a cripple as long as it lives. Mary Jackson.  Brickfield, March i2(h, 1871.  Betty Fitton, daughter of Robert Fitton, parents healthy, child also previous to vaccination j after vacci- nation its arms were badly inflamed ; inflammation of the arms was succeeded by inflammation of the chest, of which it died after eleven weeks of sickness.  (Signed) I Robert Fitton, Jun.,  0 ' \ J no. Robert & Mary Fitton. Smallbridge, March \zth, 1871.  Keningale Robert Cook, son of the vicar of small bridge, vaccinated in infancy, re-vaccinated on entering the Civil Service at the age of twenty-three, and in three   8   Vaccination Tracts.   weeks after was afflicted with smallpox in the confluent form.  (Signed) R. K. Cook, Vicar of Smallbridge.  Ernest Holt, son of John Holt, was vaccinated when eights months old ; before vaccination was very healthy. It has been afflicted with erysipelas ever since ; at present its back is covered with skin eruptions ; ever since vac- cination it has been taking sarsaparilla ; it is now three years of age.  /e;(tm)^\ / John Holt, (Signed) | J MaryHolt .  Hamery Bottoms, Star Garden.  John Riley, son of Hugh Riley, parents healthy, child also before vaccination. Was vaccinated when fifteen weeks old ; immediately it was covered all over with a rash ; it began to swell and inflame, first in the arm, then in the chest ; its whole body seemed to be filled with corruption ; just before it died both of its thumbs and one finger burst open ; it died fifteen days after the operation. We, the parents, believe, nay, are sure, that vaccination killed our child.  Father, Hugh Riley,  Sarah Ann Riley.  Hamery Bottoms, March at h, 1871.   CASES FROM OTHER SOURCES.  From a Leeds Newspaper, August 1872.  " I had a sweet little boy, sir : he was only four months old when he had to be vaccinated. I took him to the station to be done. I told the doctor I could not bide to see him cut, so he savagely took him out of my arms, and gave him to another woman to hold while he did it. The poor thing cried, frightened like, and when the doctor gave him back to me, I shall never forget his   Cases of Disease and Death from Vaccination. 9  look. He seemed to say to me- 'Mother, what did you let him do that for?' I took him home ; he seemed smitten from that very hour • he never looked up again, and he tiied in dreadful agony in less than six weeks. / see that took now, and I shall see it as long as I live:' 1  My child, Sam, aged seven months, a fine healthy boy from birth, was vaccinated on the 9 th of April, and after the operation became unwell, as I was given to under- stand was usually the case, but in ten days the child's arm commenced to swell, also the left side down to the foot turned black, where a nasty sore formed and burst ¦ and the arm, where vaccinated, was much discoloured and eat away, forming a hole where the bone and sinews of the arm could be seen, and finally, after three weeks ol intense suffering, died on the 4th May.  n J*I °H? d ' aS the , nei § hbours can testify, was sound and healthy up to this beastly and disgusting operation; has been attended by two medical men, and I challenge  Siw ° r tf UtC m y assertion > whi <* is simply and sorrow- fully this, "vaccination killed my child." Is it not time inquests were held upon the cases, and evidence taken, so that they who impose fines and imprisonment ma  coTtrv se and deaths thQ y are Causi "S in *J  Cental Street, Dewsburv, SlM ° N DeNT0N -  May %th, 1872.  FIVE FATAL CASES REPORTED BY W. YOUNG Pharmaceutical Chemist, 8 Neeld Terrace Harrow Road, London. ^RRAce,  r. Death caused by Vaccination.  ,, T iij e ,i firSt c 1 ! 0rn in / ant dau ghter of Mrs. Lawrence of IS Netley Street, Harrow Road; a fine health v child   to   Vaccination Tracts.   In a few days violent inflammation of the arm began to show itself, followed by erysipelas. The child suffered greatly, and died on the fifteenth day after vaccination.  The certificate of death was thus worded : - Irritation from Vaccination . . 9 days. Erysipelas 6 days.  The body was seen by Mr. Young, Mr. R. B. Gibbs, and others. The arm was apparently mortified from the elbow to the shoulder.  Death from Vaccination.  2. The child of Charles Collier, of 19 Wharf, North Wharf Road, Paddington, was vaccinated by Dr. Harper on the 23rd March 1868. It began to sicken a week after, and died on the 16th April of erysipelas, which ex- tended all over the body, even to the toes. Its age at death was four months. Previous to vaccination, its father states it was a healthy child.  The certificate of death given by Dr. Harper was, " Death from Erysipelas."  Jatmdice following Vaccination - Death.  3. Died, December 10th, 187 1, after much suffering, Robert Arthur Batchelder, of 59 Clarendon Street, Har- row Road, aged four months. The child was vaccinated by Dr. Graves on the 27th November, being then in perfect health. Seven days after, the skin and counten- ance became yellow, the matter which came from the vaccination punctures was deep yellow, and stained the linen. The child was in great agony, and lost its voice from incessant screaming, getting no sleep day nor night. His was evidently a case of jaundice produced by pyaemia, or blood-poisoning, the direct result of vac- cination.  Death from Vaccination.  4. The infant daughter of Mr. Burroughs, of Chippen-   Cases of Disease and Death from Vaccination. n   ham Mews, Harrow Road, died on the 19th September 187 1. When vaccinated, two months previously, it was a plump, healthy child. Immediately after vaccination its sufferings commenced, and only ended with its death. The vaccine punctures never healed, the axillary glands were swollen and inflamed, and a constant diarrhoea wore out the child. On the arm where the cicatrices ought to be, there existed a large and deep excavated sore, at the bottom of which the bone was visible. Dr. Pearce and Mr. Young saw this case.  Death from Vaccination. 5. Died, January 6th, 1872, in convulsions, of erysipe- las, caused by, and immediately following, vaccination, the first-born infant daughter of Mrs. Moyes, 3 Modena Terrace, Kensal New Town, aged four months. This was a dreadful case, and great efforts were made to in- duce the coroner, Dr. Lankester, to hold an inquest, but he refused to do so.  Vaccinal Syphilis. Dr. Crawford, of Walsall, reports in the Medical Times of May 17th, 1873.- A. W., born April 1863, of healthy parents, who are still alive and well; he is the fourth child of seven in the family, the rest all being in robust health. He was quite well until vaccinated. Four weeks after an eruption appeared on the forehead, and subse- quently on the extremities and body, and it has continued from year to year ever since. He still manifests the appearance of syphilis, and this year has suffered more than usual from large blotches of a copper colour on the vaccinated arm.  Statement of Henry Guest, Wood Street, Middleton. We had smallpox in our family about three years ago which began first with those vaccinated, and spread until four others had it. We had also two unvaccinated who took it, though one of those had it so very mildly that   1 2   Vaccination Tracts.   he was not confined to his room during the whole time, while some of those vaccinated had it very badly and were insensible. I am thoroughly persuaded that vacci- nation does not prevent or modify smallpox, while it causes diseases, as I have too often witnessed.  (Signed) Henry Guest.  2,0th September 1872.  Statement of Isaac Styles.  We had five children down with smallpox some years ago, who were attended by Dr. Knott, four of whom had been vaccinated, and, strange to say, they are all much pitted to this day, except the one not vaccinated, who has only one spot to be seen, and even when going through the disease, some of those vaccinated had it very badly and were blind, while that unvaccinated had it very mildly.  (Signed) Isaac Styles. Middleton Central Stores.  30/// September 1872.  2nd May 1873. Mr. Bull brought before the Walsall Guardians a child he had been compelled by them to have vaccinated, having been fined (including costs, - explaining in vain that he had a former child ruined for life by vaccination) for his previous refusal. The little one's back and thighs were one mass of black spots, and presented a most shocking appearance. Mr. jupp said five cases had been brought under his notice where children had suffered severely after vaccination - one (named Parry) was in such a condition that it was scarcely possible to recognise it as a human being. Before it was vaccinated the child was strong and hearty; but now its arm had been cauterized three times. The father had recently died, and the widow could scarcely support herself j yet the medical man had called on her to pay .£3 for attendance on the child thus ruined.   Cases of Disease and Death from Vaccination. 13  I called to see Mr. Bull's child. It was a fearful sight ; once a fine plump child wasted to a mere skeleton, and its flesh rotting off its bones. T. Blinkhorn.  Wassall, I2t/t May 1873.  The wife of James Marsden, of Newbridge Lane, previously of Heaton Norris, had twins in 1869. They were vaccinated when thirteen weeks old. They were vaccinated on Tuesday. On the Friday night one of them began to cry most pitifully. This continued during the night, and about nine o'clock next morning the child died. In the meantime the medical man who had vaccinated it was sent for. When he arrived the child was dead. Seeing that the arm on which it had been vaccinated was black from the shoulder to the finger ends, he inquired if the other child was vaccinated at the same time. Being informed that it was, he said he was very sorry, for he never saw finer children, but the other would go in the same way. Surely enough, the second child commenced to cry on Saturday night, and on Monday morning it died. The arm of this child was discoloured like the first. Both were buried in one coffin, and the medical man gave a certificate stating that the cause of death was diarrhoea ! - Extract from Speech of Mr. Riley, reported in a Stockport Paper, October ijth, 1873.   VACCINATION-PYCEMIA OR BLOOD- POISONING.  Six Deaths from Vaccination, and other cases of severe injury, investigated by Mr. Mawer, Guardian, Gainsboro' ; and laid before the Gainsboro' Board of Guardians, Nov. 21st, 1876.  Case of Severe Suffering after Vaccination.  Statement of Mrs. Wilson, of Misterton, near Gainsboro', made November i$th, 1876. No. 1. My child, Wilby Wilson, was born July 10th,   14   Vaccination Tracts.   1876; was, up to the time of vaccination, a perfectly healthy child ; and the finest we have had. He was vaccinated October 9th. The vaccination did not seem to take ; but on the fourth day the arm was very<much swollen and inflamed, and the child began to be poorly - refusing his food, etc. On the seventh day his face and nose broke out. After that, a large swelling ap- peared under his left ear, with inflammation and irritation extending down his neck to his breast ; he suffered very much ; but is now improving, and we hope will recover. There has been no disease in the house before, at, or since the time of vaccination ; and we feel sure that it is nothing but vaccination which has caused his suffering.   Death by Vaccination.  Statement of Mrs. Scott, of Misterton, near Gainsboro\ made November i$th } 1876.  No. 2. My child, Alice Laura Scott, was born January 14th, 1876, and was vaccinated October 9th, 1876. She was perfectly healthy up to that time. Four days after her arm began to swell, the swelling extending downwards to her finger ends j then upwards to her neck, and across her breast to her right arm, upon the elbow of which a very large blister appeared. The inflammation and swell- ing then extended downwards from her breast to her legs - her whole body becoming purple before death. She died November 5 th ; and during the whole of that time seemed to suffer intense pain- crying out terribly when- ever touched, and causing us intense suffering in witnessing her pain. She could not have taken cold, as she was never allowed to leave the house. We are all quite healthy; nor has there been any disease in our house since the child was vaccinated. Our opinion is, that our child died entirely through the effects of vaccination.   rses of Disease and Death from Vaccination. 15 Death by Vaccination.  Statement by Mr. George Parker, Misterton, near Gains- boro\ made November 15///, 1876.  No. 3. Charles Cooper Parker was born June 19th, 1876, and was a perfectly healthy child; he was vac- cinated on October 9th. All went well till on the evening of the 26th ; his mother, thinking he was not well, took him out of his cradle. _ She found that he could not bear his side touched ; and on examining, discovered the places where he had been vaccinated were running, and that his arm was turning black. He appeared to suffer very much all night ; and during the next day he turned entirely purple, except his face, and died in the evening. We live at the top of Fountain-hill; a very healthy situation. We have had no disease in our house. The child had not taken cold ; nor do we think it was anything but vaccination which killed him.   Death from Vaccination.  Statement made by Mr. George William Woodhouse, Mister- ton, near Gainsbord, November i$th, 1876.  No. 4. My child, John George, was born April at h, 1876. He had very good health, and was as fine a child as need be up to the time of vaccination. He was vaccinated October 9th, 1876. The pock only rose weak and small, but the doctor said he was satisfied. Fourteen days after the child cried very much, and when washed or handled could not bear his side touched. Next morning there was a substance under the left arm the size of a walnut ; the day following the inflammation had extended to the top of the shoulder. It spread gradually from day to day, covering the breast and body and reaching down to the finger tips, the whole festering hard and of a purple colour. Abscesses formed, and three blisters rose; these my wife pricked two days before death; and a yellow watery fluid exuded. Dr.   1 6 Vaccination Tracts.  Raynes saw the child the same day, and sent ':or Dr. Wright to lance the substance. When Dr. Wright came, he said it was useless to lance, as there was no matter ; we might take a clean needle and prick it all oier; it would let the blood out and ease it a little. Dr. Beard, vaccination inspector, called to inquire after our health and surroundings. Our health is good, and has been up to the present case.  Case of Severe Suffering from Vaccination.  Statement of Mr. Thomas Pickett, Misterton, near Gains- boro\ made November x$th, 1876.  No. 5. My child, Matilda, was born March 12th, 1876 ; and was quite healthy and spotless until vaccinated October 9th, 1876. On the eighth day, when shown at the station, the arm was swollen and the inflammation was spreading across the back and chest. Afterwards, an abscess formed at the left armpit, which was constantly rising, suppurating, and subsiding. I and my wife have had very little rest since the child was vaccinated, and she has suffered fearfully. She is now improving; but the abscess has a very bad appearance. Dr. Wright, the vaccinator, says it is a touch of scarlet fever, with erysipelas, my child is suffering from. Dr. Raynes, jun., says there is no fever, but all is the result of vaccination.  Death from Vaccination.  Statement made by Geo. Henderson, Walkeringham, near Gainsbord , October 26th, 1876.  No. 6. My son was born June 12th, 1876. He was vaccinated October 3rd, and never was there a more healthy child up to that time. Ten days after his arm began to swell, the swelling extending down his arm to his finger ends, which soon become fully double their usual size. They then turned quite purple, and great blisters rose upon them. His right leg then began to   Cases of Disease and Death from Vaccination. 17  swell, got very large and purple, and became quite hard. The inflammation then ran up his right side into his right a?m, across his body, and into his leg and foot, which broke out into blisters. His body was also very much swollen, and became so hard and sore that he could not bear us to touch him. His sufferings were very great till within about two hours of his death, which took place on the 25th of October."  Death from Vaccination.  Statement made by H. Baker, of Walkeringham, tiear Gainsboro\ November 15th, 1876.  No. 7. Edwin George Baker was born July 15th, and was quite healthy, not having had a quarter of an hour's illness up to vaccination, which was performed twice. The first operation not taking, he was vaccinated again on October 3rd. On the 9th the doctor visited him and took lymph from his arm. Next day we found his shoulder swollen, purple, and very much inflamed. The inflammation gradually passed down his arm, reaching his fingers on the 14th. On the 17th his throat began to be inflamed and he became insensible. The following day he appeared to be somewhat improved, but at mid- night was taken with convulsions. At two o'clock in the morning, on putting him into a hot bath, we found his legs and lower part of his body hard, swollen, and purple. No urine had been passed on the previous day. He had convulsions till noon, and then gradually sank, dying at seven o'clock. The doctor gave us as the cause of death, " retention of urine and inflammation of the kidneys." The child did not appear to have taken cold, nor was there any disease in the house either before or after his vaccination. He took his food as usual, and did not, apart from the inflammation, appear to be suffering from any other disease. It is my opinion that the in- flammation was caused either by vaccination or by taking the lymph from his arm.   1 8 Vaccination Tracts.  Case of Severe Suffering after Vaccination.  Statement of Mr. Wm. Clarke, of Walkeringham, near Gainsboro\ November i$th, 1876.  No. 8. Mary Jane Clarke was born April 7th, 1876, and was quite well and lively up to the 7th of October, when she was vaccinated. About a week after she began to be very poorly, breaking out in spots all over her body. After they had subsided the shoulder of the arm on which she had been vaccinated began to be very much inflamed, and, forming into a large swelling, broke. Previous to its breaking she became very sore from her shoulder to her foot, and her leg from her knee to her foot was very large and inflamed. An abscess then formed upon her ancle, which, after gathering ten days, causing her very great pain, broke, and is at present an open running sore. After the swelling upon her shoulder broke the inflammation flew to the pit of the arm, and there is now a very large swelling there, which we fear will break. Her pain has been very great, and at times she has lain in her cradle day after day without our being able to tell whether she was dead or alive. I have no doubt her suffering has been caused by vaccination, and I would rather endure anything than have another child of mine vaccinated. We have had no disease of any kind in the house either before or since she was vaccinated.  In cases 4, 5, and 6, no definite questions were put, but in cases 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8, the following questions were submitted to the parents. When was your child born? Was it healthy up to vaccination? What symptoms followed vaccination ? Was there any disease in your house before, at, or after the time of vaccination? Did the child take cold ? What, in your opinion, caused the suffering or death of your child ? Since taking the above statements the following letter has been received. It is from the parents of a child who was vaccinated at Walkeringham, near Gainsboro', but who has since removed to Spalding.   Cafes of Disease and Death from Vaccination. 19  ' Death from Vaccination. No. 9. Dear Sir,- We write to let you know that our child was healthy before it was vaccinated. She was vaccinated on the 5th of October 1876, and died on the 31st. Her arm began to swell ten days after. The swelling went right down to her finger ends, then across her chest and back, and down the other arm. When we wanted to move her she did nothing but scream. v She suffered very much, and we are perfectly sure it was nothing else but vaccination which killed her. We think it a sin and a shame to force vaccination and cause parents so much suffering, trouble, and expense. - Yours truly, J. Cottam.  Dr. J. Netten Radcliffe, who was appointed by the Local Government Board to report on the above cases, in his report, dated 16th Dec. 1876, endeavours to show that vaccination had nothing to do with the deaths of these children, but that the fatal erysipelas might have been due to " local causes." Dr. Garth Wilkinson writes to a member of Parliament on this view of the case as follows : -  76 Wimpole St., Cavendish Square, W. London, March 20, 1877.  Dear Sir, - I thank you for the parliamentary return about vaccination and erysipelas. It involves the most skilful mystification, tending to show that erysipelas always arises from a previous erysipelas in the neighbour- hood, and never from blood-poisoning through vaccine lymph. Like TyndalPs materialistic doctrine, that all typhoid fever arises from previous typhoid ; and that thus typhoid has existed from all eternity. Materialism is like itself in whatever its clay fingers touch. It disre- gards the evident cause, and rummages the parish for occult causes. The truth is erysipelas may, and does arise, afresh continually, and vaccination is its most preg- nant source ; and when it does thus arise, it is capable   20 Vaccination Tracts.  of propagation to grown up persons from vaccinated infants, as I have seen in my practice. - Yours faithfully,  Garth Wilkinson.  To J. W. Pease, Esq. M.P.   DEATH OF TWO CHILDREN FROM VACCINATION.  "In September 1854 our first child was born, at Swansea, South Wales. He was perfect, and seemingly healthy. When he was vaccinated, my wife saw the child from whidi the matter was taken - an apparently beautiful infant. A neighbour lady had her child vaccinated at the same time from other portions of the same matter. The vaccinator saw both children at the end of a week. Our's had been fretful the last day or two, and the place looked angry and hard - my wife wanted the Dr. to take some off - but he said it had not risen enough, and he refused. The lady, not liking the look of her baby's arm, had in the meantime tried a poultice. The Dr. said the children were going on all right, and that the bad symptoms would die away in time. The next day the lady's baby died. She told my wife that nothing but vaccination had killed it. Our's continued to get more restless and fretful, no nice pustules forming, but a central dark mark, with hard and angry-looking surroundings. On the Sunday (ten days) his fretfulness increased, and his loins, thighs and feet (all at the back part) began to get hard. On Monday and Tuesday these symptoms increased. A warm bath was tried by Dr.'s advice without effect. He said the vaccination was all right, but could not say what was the matter. Gradually all the child's back from the shoulders downwards got harder, so that the finger would make little or no impres- sion, and on the Wednesday, after lying some hours moaning at times, and with less and less power of motion, he died."  "These facts are not now recalled for the first time,   C :ses of Disease and Death from Vaccination. 2 1   but evi'n were it so, Nature would vouch for their accuracy, as the indelible impression made on a mother by the death, under such circumstances, of her first child. I have; at this present writing, taken them down from her own lips. Geo. Marks."  Rose Villa, Maple Road, Penge, S.E. Dec. 20th, 1876.   "VACCINATION AND BLOOD-POISONING.  Extraordinary inquests this day.  This afternoon, in the Police Buildings, Dale Street, Mr. Clarke Aspinall, the borough coroner, held an inquest on the body of John Garrity, who was three months old, and the son of a dock labourer, residing in 6 Court, Sawney Pope Street.  The mother of the child was the first witness called. She said that three weeks last Tuesday she took the child to the parish doctor in Great Crosshall Street, who vaccinated it. She then took it home, and, becoming ill, it died on Friday last.  Mr. J. C. Cormack, senior surgeon at the North Dispensary, who saw the child before and after death, described the appearances its body presented. The cause of death was acute blood-poisoning, the result of the processes set up by vaccination.  Dr. John Sinclair said he vaccinated the child. Similar matter to that which he used had been em- ployed in the cases of other children. The child he had no doubt suffered from erysipelas set up by the vacci- nation. He agreed with Mr. Cormack as to the cause of its death. Another child, vaccinated from the matter used in Garrity's case, was now quite well, but it lived in a higher and healthier part of the town.  Mr. James Penn Harris, surgeon, agreed with the observations of Mr. Cormack and Dr. Sinclair.   22   Vaccination Tracts.   Immediately on the conclusion of the hearing of the evidence in the Garrity inquest, Mr. Aspinall held an investigation as to the death of Owen Hyland, four months old, the son of a labourer residing in Addison Street.  Mary Hyland, the mother of the child, deposed that she had it vaccinated by Dr. Sinclair three weeks ago, and that it died yesterday week last.  The coroner having summed up, the jury returned a verdict in each case, stating the opinion that the children ue< from the effects of pysemia, consequent upon recent vaccination skilfully performed, and from a good scource: but that what were the precise causes leading to that blood-poisoning, the medical evidence did not enable them (the jury) to say." - From the Liverpool Evening Albion, October 20, 1876.   CASES RECORDED BY DR. J. J. GARTH WIL- KINSON IN HIS ESSAY ON " COMPULSORY VACCINATION " (London : F. Pitman).  Miss Edith Hutchinson, of Kensington, was vaccinated by the late eminent Dr. Joseph Laurie. The arm swelled enormously, and was hard like wood. After a month it subsided, and then a putrid thrush occurred, which disappeared after some weeks. The disease was next transferred to the abdomen and its lymphatic system ; and she died of great purulent collections in its cellular tissues, the matter, putrescent, voided by the bowels. I attended the later stages of the case with Dr. L. Vaccination, careful conscientious vaccination, did it as plainly as fire burns.  I give, this case again in Mrs. H.'s own words : -  "2 Hornton Villas, Kensington, 6th March, 1871.  " My dear Dr. Wilkinson, -  " The dear child was in perfect health in May   Ca. es of Disease and Death from Vaccination. 23  1863; bit as smallpox was prevalent, and our house- hold being vaccinated, she was subjected to the process, - though the operation had been performed upon her, and had ' taken,' when she was four months old. Within a few days of the vaccination, in May 1863, she - being then nearly six years old - was attacked with inflammation of the lymphatic glands of the arms to so severe an extent that her arms were immensely swollen, and so heavy and hard that each arm had to be sup- ported in a sling ; her sufferings for ten days were very great, at the end of which time her arms gradual*? , resumed their natural appearance. But within aiK^ weeks the poor child was prostrated by an attack *v^<> apthous ulceration of the mouth, which was of a most distressing character from the peculiarly offensive odour emitted from the gums, etc.  " The dear child was more or less delicate ever after, and, in the following June, enlargement of the abdominal glands, and mesenteric disease set in, her life being terminated by a succession of abscesses in the bowels in July 1864, the doctor who attended her telling me that the glandular disease had been coming on for some months.  "I felt then, and still do feel convinced, that her system was poisoned by the introduction of the vaccine matter, for she had never had a spot or swelling of any kind before, nor had there been a previous case of mesenteric disease in our family. - Ever, my dear Dr. Wilkinson, believe me, yours most sincerely, S. Hutchinson."  The three stages in this case are a linked chain ol consequences uncoiling from the vaccination. 1. The vaccination itself, poisonous lymph, producing poisonous lymph. 2. The enormous swelling of the cellular tissues, and consequently of all the tissues of the arm ; the cellular tissues being the great plane at the end of the whole lymphatic system : the universal lymph plane. All the lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands of the   24 Vaccination Tracts.  body stand in the relation of centres to thfe cellular tissue as their great circumference. Effects in the cellular tissue are reflected in intimate effects in the vital lymphatics. It is a great arena of transferences of fluids ; and if you disease it, of transference of diseases. It runs into the depths of every organ in the body ; and a spark of poison in its skin may soon be a devouring fire of poison in its mesentery. 3. The next stage, the malignant thrush, was no doubt the index of commencing destruc- tion in the lymphatic system of the abdomen. 4. The centre of the vaccination was reached ; the abscesses in the abdomen were the end of the vaccinatory deed. Verdict - Death by Vaccination.  Another case. My coachman's child was vaccinated, and took with it erysipelas, which overspread the body. The mother who was nursing it took the erysipelas, and both nearly died of it. I assert that this result, of two long and all but fatal illnesses, was, in a poor man's house, due to vaccination, and consequently due to Parliament.  This morning, February 27, 1872, a poor woman, Mrs. T., brought in her baby. Her words : " Vaccinated last September. A fat, strong boy till he was done. Never well since. Wasting away. Arm never has got well." I examined and saw. "A similar place on forehead and throat." I saw them. " There could not be a stronger child than this was before. Three days afterwards he came out with something which the doctor said had nothing to do with vaccination. She is now bein°- summoned to have a second baby done. " This baby died of convulsions in the night of March 10. The vaccinating Doctor's certificate ran - Died of Congesting of the Brain during Teething. My certificate would have  been Died of Convulsions, the product of inanition and  nervous exhaustion, caused by mesenteric disease directly caused by Vaccination. See what a different statistic will be gathered from the two different views.   Price id. each; 9<i. per dozen; 6s. per hundred.   VACCINATION TRACTS   THE VACCINATION LAWS A SCANDAL TO PUBLIC HONESTY AND RELIGION   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD  No. 6.] ^Second Edition.}   THE VACCINATION LAWS A SCANDAL TO PUBLIC HONESTY AND RELIGION.   Extract from a pamphlet, " Think before you Vaccinate," By Rev. George Cardew, Rector of Hehningham, Suffolk, and Gra- duate (with double honours) of the University of Oxford. Pub- lished April 1873.  "The subject of vaccination is of incalculable importance to the people of England. There can be no subject of greater importance, for it touches the body and the life. The practice of vaccination is enforced by law, with fines or imprisonment for those who refuse to comply, and the vaccinating doctors are boasting that they have succeeded in vaccinating nearly all the people. If, there- fore, it be an evil it is a terrible evil, damaging the bodies of almost the entire population j and a compulsory law forcing this evil on all, becomes in that case a national sin, which will have to be atoned for some day by national punishment.  " And what makes the matter more serious is the per- manent character of the vaccination taint. When you have once received it you cannot shake it off or destroy it. You can no more separate it from your body or your blood than you can obliterate the lancet-wounds, which are the signs and evidence of its presence. There they are still, from day to day and from year to year, indelibly imprinted - you are marked for ever : you received them   Indelibility of the Vaccine Taint.   3   at your birth, when you were weak, helpless, and uncon- scious ; and when you lie in your coffin, still are to be seen on your stiffened arm the leprous-looking cicatrices. Time has worn you out, but time has not worn out those scars.  " Vaccination is the fashion now - this is its day ; but fashion is not immortal. Be assured this fashion, as other fashions, will pass away. The doctors will change, as they have often done before. The very same men you now see will change, some of them; and new doctors will come on the scene who were not brought up under the present system ; and gradually the worship of vaccine matter will become less and less ardent, until at length it ceases altogether. It will not be many years, I venture to predict, and you will find the practice universally condemned, and regarded as a mere blind superstition of the past. Inoculation was the fashion once ; then bleeding and calomel dosing ; but all these have passed away, and are now looked upon not only as follies, but as evils. And so will it be with vaccination : when its hour is come it will pass away too, and not a voice, perhaps, or a hand be raised to save it. And then how unhappy you will feel when you think of your wounded children - wounded through you or with your consent with a wound that can never be healed. Oh, it will be well if those children, perhaps seriously injured, do not re- proach you then as the authors of their sufferings or weakness !  " I, then, earnestly advise all whose children are still untouched to wait, in prudence if not in duty, at least twelve months from this present time before they allow those lancet-stabs to be inflicted, the consequences of which, whether for good or evil, never can be altered on this side the grave. Don't allow yourselves to be frightened or talked over by the doctors. They are as honest as other men, but not more so, for they are human. They are interested in keeping up the system, they are interested in a pecuniary point of view, and   4   Wavering Faith in Vaccination.   they are interested through pride and false shame. They have been praising vaccination for years, and they will never like to own before England and the world that they have been mistaken - they will be the very last to admit it.  "Believe me, the confidence of thousands is now shaken as to vaccination. On the Continent tens of thousands, and among them some of the first and most talented of the medical profession, have ceased to believe in it. Hundreds of persons in England - the number increasing every day - have decided it to be positive evil. Even the Medical Times, the English doctor's own scientific paper, has admitted that one of the foulest of diseases is being propagated by it. And it is not the thoughtless, but the thoughtful, who have become its foes - not those who take their opinions at second-hand and simply follow a fashion or a flag unreasoning ; but those who think for themselves, and have some foundation for their belief. It is they who, by careful, cautious investigation, have discovered evil where good had been supposed, and without the slightest interest of their own to further, save inasmuch as that interest is bound up in the well-being of all, have thought it right to make known their con- victions to the world, with a view, if possible, to stay the plague.  " With regard to myself, having examined the question very seriously, and watched the results of the practice with anxious care, I have for some years past come to the conclusion that vaccination is the most fatal mistake that the medical profession has ever made - that it is the poisoner, more or less, of the blood of every one touched by it - that it has caused innumerable deaths of young children - communicated not unfrequently the most loathsome diseases - and weakened and deteriorated generally the physical constitution of the people of England. I consider it, then, as my bounden duty to do "everything I can to draw the attention of all educated and thoughtful persons to the subject. I consider it   Vaccination a Cause of Disease.   5   even as zpeligious and sacred duty ; for not only are the health and life of all involved in it, but the Law - the Compulsory Law - causes multitudes of the poor of the land to sin, by inducing them, through threats of fine or imprisonment, to do what their consciences condemn, and what their hearts and affections as parents instinc- tively revolt from.  "I have another satisfaction - it is that I gain nothing by my toil save the cheering thought that I am trying to do something for the good of my fellow-creatures, and, above all, the poor, who being, as I consider, cruelly oppressed in this matter, can neither speak for themselves nor help themselves. Like them I have been treated as a ' criminal.' Like them I have been pronounced with all the grave pomposity of magisterial authority, GUILTY of an OFFENCE (!)- the offence of refusing to allow the disease of a beast to be forcibly communicated to the tender bodies of my little human children. I had lived, as I hoped, a life without dishonour and with fair repute, having ministered in parishes large and small for a great number of years. But, unfortunately, I could not side with the fashionable doctors on the subject of vaccination (having witnessed too often the sad effects of it in my parishes, and having seen everywhere that it was no sure protection from smallpox) ; and so the paternal com- pulsory law came in and tried to force me to do what my judgment and conscience condemned.  " Never mind, my humble fellow-offenders, it did not hurt me; and the sympathy I now more than ever feel with you has made me desire to throw in my lot with you. We may take heart. Nature and parental love - and what is more, the GOD of nature and parental love - are with us, and we need not fear or be ashamed. We may stand before our accusers without a blush or a tremor. In this matter ' guilt' may be even glory.  " The subject is a wide one - it has many aspects. I begin with that which is the most serious and painful of all - namely, Compulsory Vaccination.   6   Compulsion.   "COMPULSORY VACCINATION: ITS INJUS- TICE AND SIN.  " That there should be a compulsory law on such a subject as vaccination may well excite surprise when we consider that not only has the world at large always had a diversity of opinion as to whether it be a good or an evil, but even the members of the medical profession have never been able to agree among themselves on the point. Many, having vaccinated thousands, have given up the practice from an experience of the poisonous and deadly results, and have bitterly repented that they ever had a hand in it.  " Under these circumstances, I cannot but express my astonishment that a compulsory law should exist. Indeed, I venture unhesitatingly to say that in looking back on all history, whether ancient or modern, heathen or Christian, I fail to discover any law which surpasses in cruelty, injustice, or sin the Compulsory Vaccination Act, which the English Parliament - to meet the views of the fashionable doctors of the day - has passed. The more I think of that Act, the more I am amazed : First, that any assembly of free Englishmen could have been found to pass it; Next, that any bench of free magistrates could have been found to carry it out; And then, that so many free and independent Englishmen should have looked on in silence while their poorer brethren were suffering such cruel injustice.  " See now what this Compulsory Vaccination Law is and how it acts.  " It commands every parent to vaccinate his child, with the alternative of fine or imprisonment. If the father, believing it to be an evil (perhaps from having lost a child or seen one mutilated by it) refuses to have his little one vaccinated, and the fine be not paid, his goods are to be seized, or himself sent to prison. Vaccination is the cutting, with a sharp instrument, of holes in your dear   Cruelty a?id Injustice of the Law.   7   little healfhy babe's arm, and putting into the holes some filthy matter from a cow - which matter has generally in addition, passed through the arm of another child. So that your dear little healthy babe, just after God has given it you, is made to be ill with a mixture of the corruption of both man and beast, which is forcibly inserted into its body.  " Well ; as every mother loathes this, and every father feels degraded by it, so the consciences of some will not allow them to commit such a sin against their child as to give their consent to its pollution and mutilation when it is in a state of helplessness ; and so, when the vaccinat- ing doctor comes, they refuse to allow him to cut and wound the babe with his lancet or to taint it with the filthy matter. After a time the father is summoned to appear before the Bench of Magistrates. He appears on the appointed day, and now see what follows.  " If he be a rich man, he pays a few shillings, which are literally nothing to him - pities the poor magistrates (re- garding them as the criminals rather than himself) - scorns the wicked law - feels ashamed almost of being an Eng- lishman - and goes his way. He does not vaccinate his child, and suffers nothing at all for not doing it. If he be a poor man, he is fined too ; but the fine is a serious thing to him, for he has to pay the costs as well, which often more than double the fine. Sorrfetimes he is able to pay the money himself, or some kind friends who hate tyranny and love the poor pay it for him. But when he cannot find the money anyhow he is sent to prison and his family to the Union.  " So that a poor man, whose only crime is that he is poor and loves his child, and will not commit what he believes to be a great sin- namely, to allow his dear little babe to have its blood poisoned with filthy matter from a beast - a poor man, whose only crime is what I have just said, has his humble^ home broken up, himself degraded by being ranked with thieves and vicious persons, and shut up in a prison, and his wife and children removed to the   s   Rich atid Poor.   Union - and this in free England - the land that we are in the habit of boasting is the land of the brave and the free !  " Yes j in Free England (as we call it) TWO MEN commit exactly the same offence ; but one is rich and the other poor. The RICH MAN takes out his purse, pays down the money with scorn, drives off in his carriage to his comfortable home and his good dinner. The POOR MAN cannot pay the money, and with broken heart and a helpless sense of oppression is driven away in the prison van to gaol and dry bread ! My spirit burns with indignation as I read my own words.  " But there is, as I think, even a lower depth than this. It is the case of those many thousands of poor timid dependent creatures who, believing vaccination to be an evil and sin, do violence to their reason and conscience through fear of the law and the fine, and with aching hearts and oppressed spirits take their children to be lanced and polluted by the doctor, and to receive what they believe to be an irreparable injury. The man in the prison is to be envied by comparison with these. He suffers indeed, but he has saved his child and his con- science. He is oppressed by man, but God is with him, as with Joseph of old, for he has preferred a prison to sin. These poor creatures, however, have been forced into sin by the law; for the temptation to sin through fear of the fine and the gaol has been so great that it has had all the effect of force upon them, and they have yielded to the pressure and sacrificed their little ones to save themselves.  " Mr. Gladstone, years ago, wrote a noble and stirring letter about Naples and its cruel persecutions - which letter may have helped much in shortening the days of the tyranny. Will not some enlightened Neapolitan, re- turning the compliment, now write an equally stirring article about England and its liberties - I mean its com- pulsory laws.  " O ye Christian men and women of England - ye that have hearts and can feel for the sorrows and oppressions   Free England.   9   of others-|-ye that are not dependent on daily toil for the bread and water of life, and are free to act as you wish - ye that fcave dear little ones of your own that you love and would not hurt even to the extent of a single hair of their heads - think how you would feel if you were forced (and with your own hands too) to carry your dearly- loved babes to receive at the hands of another against your will what you believed to be an irremediable injury - one that could never be repaired. And this is what countless poor mothers have to go through who take their infants to the vaccinating doctor at the appointed place on the appointed day to receive the lancet-wounds. They almost all hate it intensely. In all the parishes in which I have ministered I have never met even one poor father or mother who liked it. They believe vaccination to be poison, and instinctively dread it. They have known in many instances around them, and have heard in numerous instances more, the loathsome and often fatal consequences from it : and when they see the disgusting humours rising in their babe's arm they shed bitter tears and mourn over their poverty and misery. ' My babe has been killed, Sir,' I have heard many a mother say when her child has died from vaccination - and I have felt within me that it was but too true.  " What right has one person to say to another - ' I think such a course is wise and for my good - you must think the same and do the same. If you can't think it, at least you shall do it : and if you don't do it of your own accord I will make you do it by force, or fine and imprison you till you do?' And yet this is what the doctors have done and are doing through the law ; for it was through their representations (or rather, I should say, ^-representa- tions) that the Compulsory Law was passed and is now maintained.  "And what right has that law, or any law, to step between me and my child to do violence to my dearest instincts and force me to do what I believe to be fatal to its health and happiness ? God has given me the child   to A Clergyman on Vaccination.  and made me its natural guardian and protector, I alone am responsible in His sight for the bringing up of that child. No one must take it out of my handsA. It is a talent entrusted to me, and I cannot allow another to rob me of it. I lose all my independence and dignity as a human being, and my parental tenderness receives a mor- tal wound, if another can come and take my child from my arms against my will and do to it what my whole nature abhors and what I believe to be a deadly injury.  " We shall never have an end of smallpox till we have an end of, or at least a great diminution of, impurity. It is impurity and immorality which lead to smallpox and spread it ; and the rich and great breed and spread it quite as much as the poor. Let us strike the evil at the fountain-head. How can a child fresh from its Maker endanger the public health ? What an insult to the Al- mighty ! What a reflection on His work !  " The law is a disgrace to free England - if it be not even a parody on the word ' freedom' to use it in con- nection with a country which can permit even for a day such a law to exist ; and I shall never cease my humble exertions, using all the ability which God has given me and every legitimate means, until that law be wiped out of the Statute Book."   THE REV. JOHN POSTLETHWAITE ON VACCINATION.  At a Meeting of the Ulverston Board of Guardians, held Sept. 14, 1876 (His Grace the Duke of Devonshire in the Chair), the following letter was read from the Rev. J. Postlethwaite, of Broughton-in-Furness, and Coatham, Redcar.  {Reprinted from the " Ulverston Advertiser," September 21, 1876.)  Coatham, Sept. 9, 1876. "Dear Sir, - I beg to acknowledge your letter of August 26, stating that the Guardians of Ulverston Union had agreed to require me to vaccinate a child, whose   A Clergyman o?i Vaccination.   1 1   name you do not give, before this date. In reply, I beg to inform you that my children had not been resident within the Ulverston Union for many weeks before the date of your letter, neither are they now resident, or likely to be, until the end of October At that time, if the Guardians be so inclined, they may have a fair oppor- tunity of 4 prosecuting' me, as I see from a local paper they have resolved to do. My special work in life has been the founding and conducting of hospitals for the sick poor, and during many years I and my co-workers have been fully convinced of the many painful results to chil- dren from vaccination. I had my eldest girl vaccinated that I might ' obey the law,' though at the time feeling great compunction at doing so. That child almost died in consequence of the operation, and only recovered through very prompt measures, by the blessing of God - measures which might not have been taken by one not fully alive to the evils of vaccination. Since then I have denounced vaccination, and will do so. The law of the land is doubtlesss this, - a father must either incur all the risks of evil (blood-poisoning, and the introduction of the yilest diseases) to his children by vaccination, or pay a fine as often as the Guardians may wish to inflict it, or go to prison. After the terrible results I have seen from vaccination, I should as soon think of bringing my child to the fangs of a cobra, as risking the poison of  vaccination tion. As to paying fines, I have stedfastly resolved to make no such compromise with a human law so much at variance with a divine law ; but I shall be quite ready, as soon as I return to your Union district, to go to prison, if your Guardians think it will tend to the benefit of the community to take this step. Perhaps the fate of the Keighley Guardians has made them somewhat afraid of the sufferings of prison themselves. Pray suggest to them as the protective power of vaccination is supposed to evaporate in seven years, even by its most ardent admirers (and by many in one year), that they should prove the sincerity of their action, by being at once vac-   I 2   The Rev. Peter Dean on Vaccination.   cinated all round by the Union doctor, with the * pure lymph,' at hand in the Union Workhouse ; for without this protective power from repeated vaccination, the Guardians themselves, even by the most ardent ' medi- cine men,' are considered as great an evil and as danger- ous as any unvaccinated child. - Believe me, yours very faithfully, John Postlethwaite."   THE REV. PETER DEAN ON VACCINATION.  Remarks called forth by the Walsall Guardians ordering the renewed prosecution of Mr. Sampson Benton for conscientious objections to vaccination (after he had previously been four times mulcted and twice illegally imprisoned on the same charge), and preached in the Walsall Unitarian Free Church, on Sunday evening, July 2, 1876, by the minister, the Rev. Peter Dean.  " Only for self-protection have we a right to fine and imprison. Believers in vaccination assert that it gives them self-protection. Therefore for them to fine and imprison others for non-vaccination is tyranny." - Decanus.  " The point I want you to see is that as God's laws are altogether right and must always be obeyed, when the statutes of men clash with the taws of God, the statutes of men must be resisted. I had far better break the law of man than the law of God, for while I may break the law of man often without either sin or punishment, I can never break the law of God without both. Only so far as the statutes of men are in accord with the laws of God are they binding on human beings. If a thing is not right to begin with, making it into a law will not make it right. If it is the law of Pharaoh that I shall drown every male child born unto me, I will break the law of Pharaoh even though I have to put my little Moses in an ark of bulrushes. If it is the law of Nebuchadnezzar that I shall bow down to his golden image, I will 'Dare to be a Daniel,' I will 'dare to do what's right' If it be the law of Herod that my young child's life shall be taken, I will evade the law of Herod even by a flight into Egypt. And if it be the law of England and the   The Rev. Peter Dean on Vaccination.   13   Walsall Guardians that I shall give up my healthy child (committed to my arms by God) to have it diseased and corrupted, I will resist both even though they steal my goods or rob me of my personal liberty. I should do this not because / wish to oppose the laws of men, but because I must obey the laws of God. If Government commands me to do right I must do it, not because com- manded, but because it is right ; if they command me to do wrong I must refuse, not because commanded, but because it is wrong. Whatever else I am loyal to, I must be loyal to my own soul - to God speaking to me through my own soul. As Lord Brougham said of the Slave Laws : - ' There is a law above all the enactments of human codes, the same throughout the world, the same in all time - it is the law written by the finger of God upon the heart of man.' Pertinent, too, are the remarks of Bishop Hare - ' No authority of man can alter the nature of things, or justify a cruel and unjust sentence in the sight of God. If to punish men for their opinions be not very right, there is no medium ; it must be very wrong. It is public robbery or outrage to deprive a man of his goods or his liberty for his conscientious convic- tions, if it be not just in itself to do so as well as legal.' And if this be so - is it not time we had done with the cant and immorality, that seeing a wrong thing is the law of our country it ought to be obeyed. I say, those are the best friends of their country - those are the best citizens - who resist bad laws : who like Peter and John in our text prefer to hearken unto God - to be true to their conscience - rather than to bad human laws. If the people of Walsall are going to practically submit to the doctrine that it is as binding on them to give up their children to be diseased as it is to feed them, because both alike are the law, they are not worthy of liberty; they deserve nothing but law, oppressive law, tyrannical law, and will soon get what they deserve. If we have this notion, that we are morally bound to obey any statute legally made, though it conflict with public   14   The Rev. Peter Dean on Vaccination.   morals, with private conscience, and with the law -of God, then there is no hope for us, and the sooner a. tyrant whips us into our shameful grave the better Vbr the world. And to us tyrants will soon come.  "Now how does all this bear on the Compulsory- Vaccination Laws ? Well, it will all depend upon the answer we find to the test question - Is compulsory vaccination in acqordance with the laws of God ? If it is, it is every man's duty to obey this statute of men, not because it is the law, but because it is right. If it is not, it is every man's duty to resist it, not because it is the law, but because it is wrong. And if it is wrong (though the law), it is tyranny and persecution to enforce it. Let us accordingly see what are God's ascertained laws, and what is the Compulsory Vaccination Law.  " Now, can you tell me of any laws of God more certain than these - that disease is always opposed to health; that corruption is always opposed to soundness 1 Than these not more certain is it that black is the opposite of white, or light of darkness. Hence if the law said plainly - 'You shall disease your healthy child, you shall corrupt your sound child,' people would see the monstrosity of the whole thing. Yet I will show you from the words of Jenner, the inventor of vaccination, himself - that this is exactly what the law does say to you when it says - ' You shall vaccinate your child.' Now, hear the words of Jenner himself as to what vaccination is : ' There is,' says he, 'a disease to which the horse, from its state of domestication, is frequently subject. The farriers have termed it the grease. It is an inflammation and swell- ing of the heel, accompanied at its commencement with small cracks or fissures, from which issues a limpid fluid, possessing properties of a very peculiar kind. This fluid seems capable of generating a disease in the human body (after it has undergone the modification I shall presently speak of), which bears so strong a resemblance to the smallpox, that I think it highly probable it may be the source of that disease.' The modification referred to is   Compulsion.   '5   the passing of the matter taken from the horse, through a cow, to 'disguise it, before it is put into the blood of a child. "lere, then, is Jenner's own statement that vaccination is the filthy, festering matter of a horse's heel which has become diseased through standing in the filth of a stable, applied first to disease a cow, and then from the cow applied to disease and corrupt a health)' child ! When you hear this, need you be any longer at a loss to understand the disease and defth arising from vaccination in every neighbourhood ? God's laws cannot be infringed with impunity. ' A corrupt tree must bring forth evil fruit.' You cannot disease healthy children and not have disease; corrupt them and afterwards have soundness. The law of God has said otherwise, and ' God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man soweth that he must reap. He that soweth the wind must reap the whirl- wind.'  " Upon this postulate that it is opposed to God's law to disease healthy children, and to corrupt sound ones, and that to vaccinate them is to disease them, is to corrupt them> I take my stand. Every father who resists this bad law is simply performing his duty before God and man, and every creature who tries to enforce it - be he relieving- officer, guardian, or magistrate - sins against God's laws and outrages the liberty of man. All such creatures had they lived 300 years ago would have been among those who burnt and beheaded others for not being of the same religion as them, for this persecution is born of the same spirit. But we will show them that God's law is higher than their law - we will hearken unto God rather than unto them."  COMPULSORY VACCINATION.  Extract from a letter to the President of the Board of Health, fune 30, 1855, by John GlBBS, Esq,  " The Compulsory Vaccination Act was the first direct aggression upon the person of the subject in medical   [6   Vaccination Laws.   matters, attempted in this country. It invades, in the most unexampled manner, the liberty of the subject, and the sanctity of home. It not only unspeakablyV.degrades the free-born Englishman by depriving him of liberty in a personal matter, but denies him the possession of reason ; outrages some of the finest feelings of the human heart - those feelings which have their origin in parental love - that still bright spark of the Divine nature breathed into man by his "heavenly Father ; sets at nought parental responsibility; and constrains the parent either to violate his deliberate convictions, and even his religious scruples, or boldly defy an unjust law.  " The enemies of freedom are cunning, active, and watchful. Bit by bit they eagerly strive to steal away those liberties which as yet they dare not attempt to seize openly and at once. Englishmen were wont to boast that their Constitution assured the inviolability of the person : that security no longer exists. Under cover of the Vaccination Acts the Constitution is daily violated itt the persons of the most innocent and helpless.  " English justice used to demand proof of an overt act, as essential to the commission of a crime ; the dangerous, the fatal principle has been imported into English legis- lation, that the penalties of the law may fall where no overt act is committed, and a novel doctrine of passive criminal aggression is propounded, as justifying active aggression on our liberties."  SIR THOMAS WATSON, M.D., ON VENEREAL VACCINATION.  " I can readily sympathize with, and even applaud, a father who, with the presumed dread and misgiving [of imparting the venereal disease by vaccination] in his mind, is willing to submit to multiplied judicial penalties rather than expose his child to the risk of an infection so ghastly." - The Nineteenth Century, June 1878.   Price id. each; 9d. per dozen; 6s. per hundred.   VACCINATION TRACTS   VACCINATION, A SIGN OF THE DECAY OF THE POLITICAL AND MEDICAL CONSCIENCE IN THE COUNTRY.   [No. 7.1   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1877   VACCINATION, A SIGN OF THE DECAY OF THE POLITICAL AND MEDICAL CONSCIENCE IN THE COUNTRY.  The following pages are extracted from a work published last year, on Human Science, good and evil, and its works ; and on Divine Revelation, and its works and sciences, by J. J. Garth Wilkinson.  Vaccination. - The introduction of vaccination, the persistence in it, and its elevation into a compulsory law, may be cited as a cardinal instance of blindness to the most general considerations of health on the part of the medical profession. Stupid as vaccination is in the present, it is more perniciously stupid for the future. None but a chartered calling in interior private ruin could entertain or maintain it. See how the case stands.  The causes of death may be divided into natural, accidental, and hereditary, Few people die natural deaths, of mere fulness of years, without intervention of disease. Many die of acute diseases ; and of these a large proportion have weakness of constitution lying in them, which betokens hereditary taint, without which the accidental disease would not. have arrested their lives. The third class comprises the hereditary diseases which fatally affect the community. Scrofula, consumption, insanity, gout, cancer, syphilis, and the vice diseases, such as drunkenness and the like, are genera of disease which belong here. They figure largely in the causes of   i   Separation of Diseases in Nature.   3   death. Temporary maladies are influenced by them towards fatal issues. Thus many cases of whooping- cough ar& measles, and of teething, die because of their consumptive parentage. For this reason the number of deaths from hereditary causes might be multiplied in the returns. If we could survey the infants of the United Kingdom, and make inquisition of their parentage, and then take note of the infant rate of mortality, and of subse- quent mortalities by decenniums, we might nearly allocate the numbers that would die out of the multitude of cases thus brought before us. So many of them of syphilis in the first year, with so many of syphilis left alive for future ill health, or as easy grounds for other diseases. So many of cancer, late perhaps in life, the mother's history pointing the way. So many of consumption at various stages of life. So many of madness. So many of heart disease. If we could see far enough, we could predict from the known taint the ground of death. Not seeing at all, we yet know that the cause is there from the equable death-rate. Some taint of the kind exists in nearly every family, and explains its vices, its deaths, and often its extinction.  God has made families separate, and the taints with which they are afflicted, and of which they die, are separate also. The more separate they are kept, as by well-assorted marriages, such assorting being honest enlightened separation, the better it evidently is for mman nature.  The blood which is the life also has in it the blood which is the death. This death is a seed working in the system until its destruction is prematurely effected. The great diseases are the organs and manufactories of human pecay. They exist in their beginnings in nearly all our infants,- one mortal disease in one class of constitutions, another in another class ; and more or less misery and overt malady of body and mind accompanies the taint in its progress from the cradle to the coffin.  There is no medical dogma so much insisted upon   4   Mixture of Diseases by Vaccination.   as vaccination. Though of recent family, it is the acknowledged royal seed of medicine which a| eady sits upon its throne. \  What does vaccination do ? The inrants are, indeed, appointed to die in time of the reigning disease of their lives ; but this disease is inscrutable for the most part until its period for manifestation arrives. They look tolerably healthy; and if medical inquiry went strictly back into the history of parents and ancestors, the pick and choice of infants left to vaccinate from among the poor would be very small. If some of our kings when infants had been straitly canvassed, no far-seeing decent beggar would have been vaccinated from their veins. But vaccination shuts its eyes, and has its way.  The consequence is, that breaking down the Divine law of keeping evils separate, of imprisoning them in families, vaccination mingles in a communism of blood the taints of the community. Every hereditary sewer opens up into every nursery ; nay, into each infant's very heart. All ferments of disease are poured by the healing art through the physical nature of the people at the tenderest age. An antichrist is reached here when medicine says, through the penal State, "Suffer little children to come unto me."  Now the statistic to be worked out by the Statistical and Epidemiological Societies is the following : If seven infants die every week of syphilis in London, how many are left alive impregnated with the same disease?* how many of these are ignorantly vaccinated from ? what is the natural increase of syphilis thus, and so on, and so on ? what is the formula of progression, and how long will it take to extend the poison of syphilis to the entire popula- tion? And the like with every other disease : standing on its own first figures, how long a time will it take to universalize consumption, scrofula, cancer, arthritic, poison, insanity, etc., until no vaccinated person is left   * See page 12   Poisoned Blood.   5   who is not infested by all the contagions of the time ? It is impossible to elude this result. The consequences to the population may appear at a distance from their causes, and look quite novel, as effects develop them- selves slowly; but they are as sure as fate. Only note that, the conditions being comparatively new, of a population subtly poisoned with venom put into the blood, careful study is necessary to trace and allocate the results, which are not similar to anything that the past has furnished.  In passing we note the plain fact that, as inherited constitutional diseases render acute temporary maladies more intractable and fatal, so the injection and ingenera-ation of a plane of constitutional diseases artificially communicated by vaccination imparts to the diseases of childhood a terrible depth of mortality, and thus gives dentition, measles, whooping-cough, scarlatina, a power of destruction which they would never have in unvac- cinated infants. Note also that vaccination is done just at the period when disease may be expected, childhood and old age standing alone as periods in this respect.  The medical profession puts in only one plea in abatement of the plain inference of universal com- munication of hereditary taints, - that if no "blood" is drawn in the act of vaccination, the vaccine disease alone is communicated, and the constitution of the vaccinifer is left out. Passing by the fact of numerous cases of syphilitic and other infection occurring from vaccination, and which are attempted to be accounted for on the ground that blood has been drawn, or rather, which are for the most part denied point blank by the vaccinators, what probability is there in common sense that a vesicle on a syphilitic arm should not carry the syphilis into the second infant's system, and infect its blood ? No profession but a crowned fool would dare the risk. For every drop of lymph in the body is in rapport with the entire blood, and by its contents com- mands and modifies the state of the blood. The medical   6   Poisoned Lymph.   hypothesis would make it appear to be unimportant to select infants for vaccinating from carefully ;\ the only necessary point being to take care that the puncture is bloodless. May we not here chronicle corporate blind- ness as well as hardness of heart? Is it possible that the English people can allow, that with a mind such as this reigning in the healing art, the body which practises it is making strides in practical medicine ? But a word here on the lymph.  Lymph-poisonmg. - Coherent views of the human body have so far vanished out of modern perception, that the place of the lymph in the economy is overlooked. Now the cellular tissues, from which the lymphatics arise, are a kind of terminal sea to the whole of the fluids, that is to say, to the visceral lakes and rivers of the body. They are the area of a universal communication. In them especially the body is materially continuous. They reign throughout the conglobate glands, are present in all the glands, and are connected with their diseases. And yielding their lymph to the blood by the absorbents or lymphatics, they communicate to it their states and properties. They are the grand expanse of absorption. And the lymph, and its congener, the chyle, is the milk and impressible infant state of the rest of the fluids. Swedenborg has shown these truths in his Animal Kingdom. Thus he says : " The lymph is the true purer blood" (vol. i. p. 219). "The cellular tissue is the emporium of the lymphatics" (p. 289). "The cellular tissues, lymphatics, thoracic duct, mesenteric glands, and receptacle of the chyle are all continuous, and identical in use, structure, and nature" (p. 222). "The cellular coat is a lymphatic projected into a plane" (pp. 222, 319). Thus the cellular tissue, and the lymph which arises in it, pervade the constitution; and whatever modifies them produces universal visceral effects. Poison- ous injection, therefore, of any kind communicated to the lymph, goes always either, first, to its own elective centres and peculiar seats, as in syphilis or consumption ;   Poisoned Lymph.   7   or secondly, to the patient's weakest part, evoking his tendenc^s to disease, and aggravating his existing diseases.' Hence vaccination, by putting animal and human virus into " the true purer blood," and into the universal arena of it, namely, the cellular tissue, " the emporium of the lymphatics," tends to distribute the diseases of which it may be the vehicle to their own susceptible seats in the body, and also to evoke by its incitation the latent diseases of the constitution. So lymph-poisoning is worse than blood-poisoning j because the sphere invaded is higher and wider and deeper ; the effects chronic; the means of elimination incomparably more difficult, and often impossible. True, many infants do not suffer appreciably ; but we know that taints may be years in showing themselves. Moreover, we guard against causes of unhealth even although they affect visibly but a small number of the people. Organic molecules in Thames water are under a scientific police, and rightly so, when yet few cases of mischief are traced to its effects. The common sense is, that all are injured by unwholesome influences from without, especially by habitual lymph-poisoning, whether we can trace the vitiation of health to vaccination or not.  Materialism, we may here coin an ugly word and say " matterism," reigns in it, else it would be seen that evil infections, violating the skin by the lancet, must have consequences of decay acting upon the race, although these consequences may deceive coarse observation by appearing at a distance from their causes, just as the influence of sewers, and their connection with fevers, was scarcely appreciated by our hard-nosed ancestors. Diseases, we know, may be dynamic as well as material ; they may be suppressed from outward manifestation, and fall in long times, or even at once, upon remote faculties and organs. The vaccinated syphilis of one organism, passing into another, may not manifest itself by eruption, or chancre, or visible syphilitic taint at all, but may fall upon the nervous life, and be a raging and unappeasable   3   Poisoned Human Faculties.   in st in after life. A keener philosophy, tracking the sins of the blood through their career, may see ^th fatal certainty that one set of patients from this cause have syphilis in their brains and mental faculties,- that another have it in their emotions, and indeed in any faculty that belongs to man ; because the physical organism, in its health and in its corruptions, is the form that deter- mines the presence of every higher faculty in the body, the higher being according to the lower. What is said of syphilis is also true of other similarly-communicated diseases. Vaccination extends them all to the very doors of the mind and the soul, and injects them into the human race through the whole compass and complex of its nature. This is medical advance into us indeed, but if great, it is wicked.  If vaccination could give no taints but its own animal disease, it must debase all blood, or mixture has no meaning. It is a law that in any association the worst and meanest elements, if first admitted, and then not resisted, gradually corrupt the rest to their own standard, and then carry the organism as a new quantity by its own gravitation to a lower level still. This also vac- cination does ; for it mixes up in time the whole blood of the nation, and subtracts excellence as a quality overmuch wherever it goes. Now it is not wonderful that a profession which aims to advance by violation of animal lives should be blind to the organic fact, that evil communications corrupt good blood, and that base communications embase and debase it. At present it is a profession pointed outwards into grossness of thought, and its eyes are in the ends of the earth ; it is keen after sewage gas and typhoid germs, whilst by vaccination and its compulsion it pours every disease and ventilates every commonness through all the little children of the land.  This is not the place to discuss the question of vaccination, because the object here is to show by a great example how the medical intellect is vitiated and   Abominations.   9   deluded, as a symptom of deep causes injuriously affecting the mine: of the profession. But the more the subject is probed, the more abyssal the insanity is seen to be. Two things may be noted, i. The poison inserted into the blood of infants is fivefold. First poison, the matter of the vaccine disease itself. Second poisons, the occasional and constitutional diseases of the cow from which the matter is derived: these are animal poisons, and tend to assimilate the blood to themselves on the animal level. Third poison, the vaccine disease of the human being. Fourth poisons, the occasional and constitutional diseases of the child and family from which the matter was taken. And, Fifth poison, the gathered taints of all the children through whose systems the matter has passed since it left the cow. This is what the healers of the people inject bylaw, into the blood, or into the lymph, which is a higher blood, of every little baby in the British Islands. A fivefold coil of poison within poison, a five- fold fang in the nation's future life.  2. Three procedures preside as methods over the ob- scene series. In true vaccination, the mixture of beast with man. In smallpoxing the cow to obtain lymph, the mixture of man with beast and of beast with man reciprocally. In arm-to-arm vaccination of persons, the mixture of man with man. Has British Christianity lost its nose that it has no perception of right and wrong here? The case goes beyond pollution, and enters abomination.  Note the disregard of serious physiological truth. - In the human body, whatever enters the blood, be it even the most bland food - the juice of the grape, or the pome- granate, or the fine flour of wheat, - be it oil, wine, or fig, - is broken up first, and then led inwards through long avenues of introduction. The most innocent food goes in most easily and first. The police and surveillance for the rest are exceeding great and many. The senses electively appetize the fine food ; it has to pass through their peremptory doors of liking and disliking- instructed   to Physiological Crimes of Vaccination.   doors of memory, association, imagination/ reason, wisdom, religion, in adults. It is then attacked by digestive salivas, tests, examinations, and severe juices, and questioned to the uttermost in that degree, which corresponds to the former. It is strained through organ after organ ; each a tribunal of more than social exacti- tude. It is absorbed by the finest systems of choice in pore and vessel, organic judgment sitting in every corner, and presiding over each inner doorway. It is submitted to glandular and lung purifications, and their furnaces of trials and eliminations. At last it is weighed in the balances, and minted, by supreme nerve wisdoms ; and only after all these processes is it admitted into the golden blood. This is of the best food, such as good and wise men eat. The worst food is made the best of by a constant passage through bodily mercies and mitigations, a no less sedulous though a penal process. This is physiology, and divine human decency, and like a man's life. Vaccination traverses and tramples upon all these safeguards and wisdoms ; it goes direct to the blood, or still worse, to the lymph, and not with food ; it puts poison, introduced by puncture, and that has no test applicable to it and can have no character given to it but that it is fivefold animal and human poison, at a blow into the very centre thus otherwise guarded by nature in the providence of God. This is blood assassi- nation and like a murderer's life. The point, however, here is that this amazing act is the homicidal insanity of a whole profession ; and the reader is requested to study the correlation of this sin with the horrible methods of acquiring physiology now in vogue, and which surely prepare the minds of men for similar darkness and its deeds in medical practice.   ON THE DIMINUTION OF THE GENERAL DEATH-RATE IN smallPOX SEASONS; AND ON THE PROBABLE DOUBLE EFFECT OF VACCINATION.  If a person is in the way to die from high fever, and this almost always accompanied by acute congestion and inflammation of some internal organ - the brain, the lungs, etc. - that is to say, if the constitution is strong in the inflammatory sense, then whatever lowers this state (I will not call it vitality) tends to suppress the fever, to mitigate it, and thus is in favour of recovery from that attack. If vaccination does this it will save some lives. It may have such an effect in intense inflammatory smallpox.  In confluent cases, where the blood of the patient tends to decomposition, and often to extravasation, whatever has lowered the system favours the downward tendency to death. It is unreasonable to doubt that vaccination does weaken the organism. And therefore if, notwithstanding vaccination, the confluent form occurs, death would naturally be more likely than if vaccination had not preceded.  The probability is that a large proportion of the confluent cases in which marks are obliterated have been vaccinated. And that these persons have died in part of the lowering though remote effect of vaccination.  The argument would appear to show that if vaccination saves, it also kills, during smallpox. In such a balance, vaccination itself is judged ; and the Compulsory Law, acting on such a theatre of doubt, stands out as anomal- ous in legislation and absurd in fact.  The diminution of the public death-rate during out- breaks of smallpox is a generally observed circumstance ; and it points to the conclusion that smallpox seasons are not favourable to the existence of scarlatina and whooping-cough, and of typhoid fever, the former and   I 2   Vaccination and the Death-rate.   latter of which are in the long run more fatal diseases than smallpox. Thus also the diminished death-rate signalizes the fact that during smallpox the general health stands higher than usual, and this is in unison with the fact that smallpox itself belongs to a less deadly meridian in the climate of disease than the maladies which it appears partially to supersede. We may further remark that upon the whole there are no epidemics of smallpox now in any sense in which there are not worse epidemics of scarlet fever, etc. The point is, that the latter epidemics are constant, and their advent consequently has not to be chronicled, whereas  smallpox , except so far as it is kept up by vaccination, is in- constant, and the general health is seldom high enough to admit of its superseding the graver forms of disease. If the victims of scarlet fever were taken compulsorily from their homes, and nursed in hospitals, with daily accounts of the process in the newspapers, the allegations of smallpox as a formidable epidemic would in seasons like the present dwindle into public insignificance.   * Note to page 4.  Dr. B. W. Richardson, in an article on "National Health" in Good Words for December 1876, asserts that syphilis leaves its " imprint more or less marked on every hundreth babe at least, born in this kingdom, and engrafts a host of maladies on half our Saxon race."  George S. Gibbs, Fellow of the Statistical Society, using this statement as a factor, has constructed tables showing the rate at which syphilis is propagated from children born with it, by the process of vaccination. He says: "It is a moderate estimate that for every diseased child used as a source of lymph, ten others will be diseased ; and if we allow the vaccinators sufficient acumen to reject one half of these unfortunates, in addi- tion to those who died, we shall then have disease spread   The Rate of Advance of Syphilis.   '3   among the children of London, during the ten years to which the figures refer, at the average rate of 4000 per annum, and in the whole of England, at the rate of 33,000 per annum - and this for the object of accom- plishing the abolition of smallpox, which, after all, refuses to be abolished, since in these same ten years it has taken off in London 15,080, and in England 34*895 victims."  Dr. Farr, in the Twenty-Eighth Annual Report of the Registrar-General, speaks of "the marked increase of the deaths referred to syphilis" in 1865. And in the Appendix of the Thirty-Seventh Annual Report, Dr Farr writes : " Syphilis .... was, as far as it was re corded, twice as fatal in the five years 1870-74 as it was twenty years ago. Its most fatal recorded forms occur in children under one year of age. Thus of nearly 2000 deaths ascribed to syphilis (in 1874), 1484 were babies under one year of age."  We take these particulars from a pamphlet entitled Plow and How Much "the Disease of Diseases'''' is Propa- gated by Vaccination, by George S. Gibbs, addressed to Mrs. Richard Butler Gibbs, Honorary Secretary of " The Mother's Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League." They give an approximate answer to the question on page 4 of this Tract. Mr. Gibbs' tables furnish the statistical figures. The reader not versed in statistics will see at once the bearing of the fact, that the death of infants by the venereal disease keeps steady pace with the stricter and stricter vaccination of the same infants. The geo- metrical proportion has yet to be worked out before the year of grace, calculable as the time of a coming eclipse is calculable, can be known, at which the whole of the United Kingdom will be in the grasp of parliamentary syphilis.   14   THE SCIENTIFIC KINDRED OF VACCINATION.  In near relationship to vaccination, which is the fore ing of lymph of disease from one living body into another, is the practice of injecting the blood of one person, in quantity, into the veins of another. This is a business capable of great extension, especially since M. Rousell, on the 24th of last October, "exhibited before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society a new method for the transfusion ol blood; a subject of the greatest interest to the profession, and of vast importance to the public as a means of, in many cases, saving valu  able lives A poor Swiss, full-blooded, with good  veins, was seated in the midst of an eager gazing crowd of scientific men .... a spring lancet was shot down into the life-giving stream, and a jet of blood was pumped out successfully."  The process, therefore, of buying and selling blood- stock, and the institution of medical blood-brokerage, are now fairly under weigh, and illustrate the state of the medical conscience, and the Daily Telegraph dogma, that there is no " right and wrong " in medicine.  A case of transfusion, fatal to the transfusor, and in the transfusee - both victims died - has just been sat upon by the Coroner in Liverpool (see Liverpool Daily Post, May 21, 1877).  On this subject a Liverpool physician says: "In the first place, the operation of transfusion as a dernier ressort in cases of primary or secondary haemorrhage, is a doubt- ful, if at all a justifiable, proceeding. There are few men who can speak with greater authority on this subject than our townsman Mr. Higginson, and he has modestly put it, that the whole question was still sub judice, and, being still sub judice, it behoves the public that they should see a little behind the scenes. It is all very well for a parcel of goslings of medical students to get up an   Transfusion of Blood.   T 5   applause in court when their favourite science or art is victorious, even in the vexed question of the value of transfusion, or when one of their teachers comes to the rescue and speaks with an air of authority, to the annoy- ance of the coroner and his jury. But there are other intelligences than either students or their teachers, which it may be well for the public to listen to.  " What of the operation itself? The profession is divided, and I for one was always against it. In the first place, 'the blood is the life,' and as is the life of man so also is the constitution of his blood. We know that the blood contains all that is essential to our souls and bodies, and, although the blood of one person in health looks quite the same as that of another, they are not the same, but far from it. To a chemist or physio- logist this may sound as nonsense, but to the enlightened psychological physician they are as wide asunder as the poles. The living blood contains not only all the ele- ments necessary for our tissues, but it contains the seeds of every hereditary or acquired disease ; it also contains the spiritual elements of good and evil necessary for the growth of our souls in evil or in grace ; and is any man justified in setting the laws of God at defiance, putting together what He has in His divine wisdom thought proper to keep asunder and inviolate ?  " What do we mean by ' the hereditary transmission of qualities,' if it is not that children take on the likeness, qualities, and characteristics of their parents - ay, even their insane, criminal, and sinful, and drunken, as well as their good propensities, which are fed by or from the blood?  " There is a great moral responsibility involved in this operation, and I am only sorry to see that the profession hitherto has failed to see it."- Liverpool Daily Posi, May 25, 1877.   1 6   VACCINATION MARKS CLEARED UP.  "Look well to your Vaccination Marks. "-London Paper.  The record of every week's death-rate from smallpox has a large item of deaths in which there is no statement made with regard to vaccination. On page n of the present tract this subject is noticed ; and the remark is made that these deaths have nearly all been vaccinated. Mr. George S. Gibbs thus clears up the case : - " When the Metropolitan Asylums were established, the rule was laid down, and appears to have been rigidly adhered to, that all patients on whom vaccination marks were in- visible should be regarded as unvaccinated. If  smallpox  were an internal disorder which did not interfere with or alter the appearance of the skin, there might be some show of reason for laying down such a rule ; but as it was within the knowledge of the Managers that  smallpox  in its severer forms covers the body with an eruption which makes it impossible to discern skin marks, the classification inevitably secured a differential fatality in favour of the patients afflicted with the disorder in the milder forms, and on whom the skin marks could be readily discovered. The true reading of the hospital records is, - those patients who had the disease in the severest confluent form, and on whom, in consequence, ' no marks ' could be seen, died at the rate of forty-five per cent.; those who had it less severely, so as to allow only ' one or more bad or indifferent marks ' to be seen, died at the rate of twenty-five per cent.; those who had it in a yet milder form, so that the skin was but little affected, and all the marks clearly visible, died at the rate of five, four, two per cent. ' Thus,' says Dr. Farr, ' it is the general rule that the mortality is inversely as the marks of vaccination.' It cannot be otherwise."   Price id. each; 9d. per dozen; 6s. per hundred.   VACCINATION TRACTS   THE PROPAGATION OF SYPHILIS TO INFANTS AND ADULTS BY VACCINATION AND RE-VACCINATION   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1877  [No. 8.]   REKTOR P. A. SILJESTROM.  7 he Vaccination Question, page 91.  " The opponents of vaccination assert that this operation is not only useless, but injurious, by causing diseases, and sometimes death ; and it is allowed by the defenders of vaccination, that syphilis can be communicated through vaccination if caution is not observed. We do not allow ourselves to pronounce judgment in this matter, but if only. one single well-established case of syphilis has been communicated, this is a sufficient reason for the abolition of compulsory vaccination. Because when it is known what extraordinary difficulties lie in the way of the full and certain confirmation of such a fact, there is reason to suspect that this one case may, in reality, represent hundreds of cases. Under such circumstances, there is always reason to entertain a fear: a justifiable fear; as it is certainly better to die from smallpox, however horrible that complaint may be, than to live with syphilis, to the unutterable ruin of one's descendants in the third and fourth generation."   M. RICORD.  "The obvious fact is, that if ever the transmission of disease with vaccine lymph is clearly demonstrated,  vaccination must be altogether discontinued."   CURRAN.  " Outrages like these are never solitary ; for when the public calamity generates imps like those, their number is as the sands of the sea, and their fury as insatiable as its waves. I am therefore anxious that our members should have one authenticated instance of the treatment which our unhappy country suffers under the sanction of their authority." - Speeches.   THE PEOPAGATTON OF SYPHILIS TO INFANTS AND ADULTS BY VACCINATION AND EE-VACCINATION.  ""o<*  VACCINAL SYPHILIS.  The controversy as to the possibility of vaccination being the medium of communication of other diseases is of old standing Willis and Moseley declared in Jenner's time that syphilis was propagated in this way from arm to arm. So late, however, as 1857, almost all the authorities were fully convinced in their own minds that vaccination could not be the means of contagion, and notably M. Ricord, some time physician to the late Emperor of the French, who in reply 0 Mr. Simon's inquiry, " Have you any reason to believe >r suspect that lymph from a true Jennerian vesicle has ever jeen a vehicle of syphilitic, scrofulous, or other constitu- ional infection to the vaccinated person?" responded im- jatiently, " Non, non." Six years later, that is, in 1862, M. iicord was brought face to face with certain facts, respecting vhich he delivered a lecture in Hotel Dieu, in Paris, and lsed these remarkable expressions : " It is not impossible hat the disease was transmitted with the vaccine lymph, jut in the estimation of facts which seem to establish such ransmission, it is necessary to distrust the evidence of our enses;" and then, further, "let us admit a careful inquiry at o these cases, and let us guard against any predetermined totions on the subject ; but as to the interpretation offered, et it be received with an amount of hesitation and doubt, acreased by the obvious fact, that if ever the transmission f disease with vaccine lymph is clearly demonstrated, vac- illation must be altogether discontinued; for in the present tate of science, we are in possession of no criterion which   4   Vaccinal Syphilis.   may permit the conscientious practitioner to assert that the lymph with which he inoculates is perfectly free from admix- ture with tainted blood."  On the 19th May 1863, this eminent and accepted authority gave public utterance to his opinion on the subject in these words : " At first I repelled the idea that syphilis could be transmitted by vaccination. The recurrence of facts appear- ing more and more confirmatory, I accepted the possibility of this mode of transmission, I should say, with reserve, and even with repugnance, but to-day I hesitate no more to pro- claim their reality." Notwithstanding this, Lord Aberdare, then Mr. Bruce, acting, of course, as the mouthpiece of the medical department, told the House of Commons, in 1866, that such things never occurred.  The year 1868 saw the publication of Dr. Ballard's prize essay " On Vaccination." In this work, which it may be supposed helped him to his present official position, he dis- cussed the transmission of disease by vaccination at great length, in over eighty large octavo pages, and came to the following conclusions : -  1. " There are numerous cases on record to prove that the  vaccine virus and the syphilitic virus may be intro- duced at the same spot by the same puncture of the vaccinating lancet.  2. " From several instances on record, there can remain no  reasonable doubt that the vaccine virus and the syphilitic virus may both be drawn at the same time, upon the same instrument, from one and the same vesicle. 1  3. " The vesicle which is thus capable of furnishing both  vaccine and syphilitic virus may present, prior to being opened, all the normal and fully developed characters of a true Jennerian vesicle, as ordinarily met with."  Dr. Ballard, in his "Essay on Vaccination," published details of four series of vaccino-syphilitic pollutions.  In the first, from one child fifty other children and twenty adults were diseased ; in the second, thirty-four children and many adults were diseased; in the third, six children and "other children, mothers, and nurses" were diseased; in the fourth, sixty-one children were diseased. Nurses and mothers were diseased through suckling the infants, and syphilis was thus conveyed through vaccination from chil- dren to mothers, and from these to their husbands.   Vaccinal Syphilis.   5   In 1 87 1, before the Vaccination Committee of the House of Commons, undeniable evidence was given of the trans- mission, through vaccination, of this loathsome disease to previously healthy children, by Drs. Collins, Pearce, Bake-  i well, Jonathan Hutchinson, and others. (See Report of  ) Committee.)  In the appendix to the 37th Annual Report of the Registrar- General, Dr. Farr, page 221, writes: - "Syphilis . . . was, so far as it was recorded, twice as fatal in the five years 1870-74 as it was twenty years ago. Its most fatal recorded j forms occur in children under one year of age. Thus of nearly 2000 deaths ascribed to syphilis (in 1874) 1484 were babies under one year of age."  In London alone, from January 1, 1872, to December 31, 1876, 1801 children under five years of age died of syphilis, the rate of such deaths having doubled since the passing of the Compulsory Vaccination Act in 1853. From these, pro- bably thousands of healthy children were vaccinated and contaminated.  Dr. Pearce, in his letter to the Rt. Hon. G. Sclater-Booth, M.P., February 20, 1877, has statistically demonstrated, from the reports of the Registrar-General, the great increase in the number of deaths from infantile syphilis, concurrently with the extension of vaccination. He says, "The fact being fully established that syphilis is sometimes conveyed in vaccine lymph, reference to the table will show the strong probability of the frequent occurrence of this calamity.  " It will be seen that there died of syphilis in the   Five years  Under one year old  Of all ages  1 860- 1 -2-3-4 1870-1-2-3-4  4504 7009  6425 9271   "In the first period, therefore, nearly two-thirds of the whole number were under one year old (the year of  vaccination tion), while in the second period, when the number of vac- cinations had greatly increased, no less than seven-ninths of the whole number of deaths were of infants not a year old."  G. S. Gibbs, Esq., F.S.S., has calculated that in addition to the deaths of over 300 children per annum, under one year, of syphilis in London, there are 800 afflicted with this   6   Vaccinal Syj>hi/is.   disease who survive, and who on befng vaccinated furnish impure lymph for the lifelong contamination of thousands of human beings.   LECTURE ON VACCINO-SYPHILIS.  Delivered at the Harveian Society, December 1876, by James R. Lane, F.R.C.S., Consulting Surgeon to the London Lock Hospital, and reported in the Lancet of April 21, 1877.  " In connection with the question of contagion by the blood we come to the interesting question of vaccino-syphilis. The reality of the communication of syphilis by impure vaccine lymph has been only too clearly proved, and the opinion generally held is that it has depended upon the accidental admixture of blood with the lymph employed. Cases of this kind are extremely rare, and have fortunately till lately been almost unknown in this country ; at all events, if they have occurred, they have not been made sufficiently public to awaken the profession to a sense of the danger, until Mr. Hutchinson, in 1871 and 1873, communicated to the Medico-Chirurgical Society the history of some remark- able groups of cases. The risk, however, seems to have been suspected long ago, for Lancereaux states that attention was drawn to it in 1805 by an English surgeon named Moseley. In 1814, an Italian surgeon named Marcolini records as follows. A little girl born of syphilitic parents served for the vaccination of ten children ; from these thirty others were vaccinated, making forty in all. The whole number are said to have had syphilis, and several died. Other examples of this kind appear to have cropped up at intervals in different parts of the Continent, including the well-known one at Lupara, in Naples, in 1856, when thirty- four children contracted disease, and were the means of con- veying it to a number of other persons. But, in spite of these facts, the possibility of this mode of infection was hardly admitted till i860, when Dr. Viennois of Lyons published a work on the subject ; and he, after examining all the cases recorded, came to the conclusion that it was the blood, and not the vaccine lymph, which conveyed the disease. Soon a f ter - j n !S6i - the celebrated Rivalta case occurred, where the same lymph served in succession for the vaccination of sixiy-four children, of whom forty-six were infected, and con-   Vaccinal Syphilis.   7   \ cyecl the disease to twenty of the mothers and nurses. Several of the children died. It is a curious coincidence that all these severe outbreaks of vaccino-syphilis should have happened in Italy, and in country villages rather than in large towns.  " Lancereaux collected 351 cases in which vaccination was performed with lymph which appears to have been impreg- nated with syphilis. Of the 351, 258 contracted syphilis, while ninty-three only escaped.  " Since Lancereaux's work was published, we are indebted to Mr. Hutchinson for his series of cases, which are recorded by him in his usual careful and complete manner. In the first series in 1871, twelve persons, mostly young adults, were vaccinated from an apparently healthy child, but which soon afterwards showed evident signs of constitutional syphilis. In all twelve the vaccination progressed satis- factorily, but in ten cases indurated chancres were developed at the seat of the punctures by the eighth week. All were treated with mercury, and in all the primary sores quickly disappeared, but in four of them constitutional symptoms appeared five months after the vaccination. There is reason to believe that blood was mixed with the lymph in these cases. Mr. Hutchinson's second series occurred in May 1 87 1. The vaccinifer was a child in good health and con- dition, but with slight local symptoms of inherited syphilis. Twenty-six persons had been vaccinated at the same time from this child. Out of the twenty-six there were unmistak- able symptoms of secondary syphilis in nine, all children, suspicious symptoms in six others, and entire escape, as far as was known, of the remainder. Mr. Hutchinson published two other cases, which I need not detail, but will merely observe that in them, as in the second series mentioned, there was no evidence that the lymph was contaminated with blood.  "It seems clear, then, that cowpox and syphilis can be conveyed simultaneously by inoculation. When this takes place, the two diseases are developed independently and without interfering the one with the other, and there is a singular uniformity in the course which they are found to follow. The vaccine vesicles are developed as usual, but at the end of a month or five weeks, and usually not till after they have healed, a chancrous induration appears at one or more of the inoculated points, and a few weeks later the ordinary train of secondary affections follows. Or the result, as regards vaccination, may be negative, as it so often is in   8   Vaccinal Syphilis.   re-vaccination ; the punctures heal and are forgotten, but after the usual interval the syphilitic symptoms make their appearance.  " I have referred to the prevalent opinion that it is the blood, and not the vaccine lymph, which conveys the contagion - a view which seems to be strengthened by the fact that Rollet and others have vaccinated with lymph from syphilitic children, carefully avoiding any admixture of blood, and the result, as regards syphilis, has hitherto been negative. Such negative results, however, are quite inconclusive ; for, even with syphilitic blood, carefully inoculated on purpose, the failures have been in the proportion of about three in every four attempts. The question is, Can we be certain that the admixture of blood is necessary? Mr. Hutchinson thinks that probably it is not, but he evidently thinks that it greatly increases the risk, for he suggests that if the vaccine vesicle be drained too freely, corpuscular elements of the blood and tissues may readily become mixed with the lymph, and that this mixture may account for some persons becom- ing infected while others vaccinated from the same source escape. This, however, is hardly more than an hypothesis, and the only safeguard we have is to inquire carefully into the antecedents and present condition of every child before vaccinating from it, and if there is the slightest doubt attach- ing to its history, to reject it as ineligible. It is clearly proved that syphilitic blood may convey syphilis, but it is not yet proved that vaccine lymph from a syphilitic child, however carefully taken, will not also convey it ; and it would there- fore be the height of imprudence to act on any such belief.  " Mr. Hutchinson's cases are all examples of direct com- munication from a diseased child to those vaccinated from it, and this is a mode of transfer which one's mind readily admits ; but it is very difficult to conceive that healthy per- sons so inoculated, when made use of a week afterwards to vaccinate others, and long before they have themselves developed any syphilitic symptoms, should be equally cap- able of conveying that disease, as is staged to have happened in most of the continental groups of cases. Can it be pos- sible that a syphilitic inoculation which does not affect the system sufficiently to produce even a local result in the form; of a primary sore for five or six weeks, and no general result till some weeks later, should in one week have so con- taminated the whole mass of the blood as to render it, or its products, inoculable at the end of that short time? This would imply a general and thorough infection of the system   Vaccinal Syphilis.   9   in the early part of the incubation period- a view in the I pathology of syphilis which, as far as I know, has never yet  i been suggested.  "It is so extremely unlikely that, for myself, I cannot accept the facts as authentic without much fuller and more rigorous  I investigation. If it were true the prospect would be indeed  I alarming. It would be useless to inquire into the health of a child°before vaccinating from it, for it might have been infected by vaccination from a syphilitic child a week before, in which case it would appear perfectly healthy, and would not present any outward sign of syphilis till four or five weeks later. It would, in fact, be necessary to search back through a series of five or six consecutive vaccinations before any certaintv of safety could be attained. If the disease were really capable of being conveyed in this manner in geo- metrical progression, vaccine syphilis would surely have been the rule amongst us by this time, instead of being the very rare exception, which we know it so fortunately is.  I There would then be nothing for it but constant recurrence to the cow."  SYPHILIS CONVEYED BY THE VACCINE LYMPH  TO FORTY-SIX CHILDREN.  (Condensed from the Lancet, Nov. 16, 1861.)  " We have received a letter from Dr. Pacchiotti, and the I Number for Oct. 20, 1861, of the Gaz. della Assoc. Med.  Both these refer to a very melancholy occurrence in the ^^Ilage of Rivalta, near Acqui, in the province of Alexandria (Piedmont), no less than forty-six children having more or lessfeuffered from syphilis after vaccination.  " "Soward the latter end of May last, M. Cagiola vaccinated Giovanni Chiabrera, aged eleven months, and in good health, with lymph obtained in a tube sent from Acqui. The opera- tion was performed with a clean lancet. On the tenth day after this, forty-six children were vaccinated with the lymph of the child Chiabrera ; and ten days after these latter opera- tions, seventeen other children were vaccinated from the lymph of one of the forty-six. Hence we have sixty-three vaccinated children, forty-six of whom were affected with syphilis within two months after the first operation. In the first series of forty-six vaccinations there were th'rtv-eight cases of syphilis, besides little Chiabrera ; and in the second series of seventeen infants seven were affected. Chiabrera   to   Vaccinal Syphilis.   was in a state of marasmus on the 7th of October, and the infant from whom the second series of seventeen had been vaccinated died a month after the operation.  " These facts having come to the knowledge of the Medical Congress at Acqui, from statements made by Dr. Ponza, a committee, elected from the members of the Congress, pro- ceeded to Rivalta to inquire into the matter. From Dr. Pacchiotti's report we extract the following : -  " The investigations of the committee were aided by Dr. de Katt, practising in the village. Of the forty-six children affected with syphilis, the cases of only twenty-three could be accurately noted, as the parents of the children neglected to call in medical aid at the proper time. These twenty-three were, however, sufficient for a clear diagnosis. In the whole forty-six cases, the symptoms of syphilis appeared, on an average, on the twentieth day after vaccination. Sometimes the vaccine vesicle, just on the point of cicatrising, inflamed, and surrounded itself with a red, livid, and copper-coloured areola, and then spread and suppurated anew. At other times, when the cicatrix was complete, an ulcer would form upon it, the crusts of which fell off, and fresh ones were pro- duced. With some children the vesicles looked bad from the first, and were accompanied by a general eruption, which the country people considered as smallpox, and the char- acters of which the medical men of the neighbourhood were not always able to ascertain. On the 7th ult. it was dis- covered that seven children had died without treatment, and before attention had been directed to the fast-spreading con- tamination ; three were in danger, and fourteen recovering, after having been subjected to a specific treatment. Thirty- eight at that period were under treatment, which consisted of frictions with mercurial ointment in the groins, axillae, and on the limbs, with small doses of iodide of potassium in sar- saparilla syrup.  " The principal symptoms noted by the committee were : mucous tubercles on the verge of the anus and genital organs, sores on the lips and fauces, swelling of the lymphatic glands in various regions, syphilitic eruptions of different kinds, loss of hair, secondary ulcerations of the prepuce, deep tubercles of the cellular tissue, gummy tumours, etc. Two children out of the twenty-three were wasting away, and suffering from syphilitic cachexia, while some of the mothers had mucous tubercles on the nipples. The twenty-three cases are carefully related in the report, all the children having been seen by the members of the committee.   Vaccinal Syphilis.   " As to how the disease came to spread amongst the in- fants, the committee refrain from coming to a hasty conclu- sion, and ask for time to solve the mystery- the more so as these facts tend to a complete upsetting of opinions hitherto held as trustworthy. Thus the belief of two diseases not having the power of developing at the same time upon the same individual falls to the ground, as well as the non- contagious nature of the secondary symptoms of syphilis.  " Dr. Parola has mentioned in his work ' On Doctrines connected with Vaccination ' a case reported by Tassani of Milan, in which a boy, whose father had at the time second- ary sores on the scrotum, was vaccinated from a healthy child. From the vesicle of this boy fifty-six children were vaccinated, out of whom thirty-five were, in a few months, syphilitic, and had diseased their mothers. On the other hand, it should be noted that lymph from eight of these I thirty-five syphilitic children was used to vaccinate a second j series of thirty-four, and none of the latter showed any : syphilitic symptoms. Another case (which was brought be- l fore courts of justice) runs thus : - In 1846, many re- vaccination  i tions took place in the town of K , where a surgeon  re-vaccinated about ten families on account of an epidemic of smallpox ; and the punctures, in three or four weeks, I degenerated into syphilitic ulcers, followed soon afterwards I by secondary eruptions. Hubner, in 1852, vaccinated thir- I teen children, of whom the greater part became syphilitic, though the rest escaped. Experiments have been under- taken by Piton, Boucher, Ceccaldi, and Lecoq, which prove the transmission of syphilis through vaccination ; whereas . other experiments made by Schreier, Montain, Bidart, and ; Taupin show, on the other hand, that vaccine lymph obtained from a child evidently labouring under hereditary syphilis • produced no evil effects upon those vaccinated with it. The I reporter further alludes to an important thesis of M. Viennois, ' On the transmission of Syphilis by Vaccination ; ' and to 1 the chapter on the same subject in the book of M. Rollet of j Lyons, entitled ' Clinical and Experimental Researches on Syphilis.'"  VACCINAL SYPHILIS.  (Condensed from the Medical Times and Gazette, Feb. 1, 1873.)  " The subject of vaccinal syphilis came again before the Medico-Chirurgical Society on Tuesday evening, when a   ] 2   Vaccina/ Syphilis.   paper was read by Mr. Hutchinson detailing two new cases. That syphilis could be communicated by vaccination was, though admitted abroad, long disputed in this country. Since the publication of Mr. Hutchinson's paper, and a communication by Mr. Thomas Smith to the Clinical So- ciety, where the patient was exhibited, it can no longer be so. We have now emerged from the region of doubt to one of belief in the possibility of such an occurrence, and we have promptly begun to seek a remedy for the possible evil.  " Mr. Hutchinson's patients came to him seeking relief for other maladies. One, a man of middle age, came for iritis, and was found to be covered with a true syphilitic rash, and to have open vaccination wounds which had assumed the character of chancres. He had been vaccinated from a puny child, which, when seen by Mr. Hutchinson, had no other indication of syphilis than a somewhat flattened nose. A month after vaccination the sores formed on the arm, and in due course the secondary rash appeared. None of the others vaccinated from the same child suffered. This rn.an soon got well under appropriate treatment.  " The second case was that of a lady over forty. She was covered with the stains of a syphilitic eruption, and it was found that this had followed on vaccination, that she had suffered from iritis, and had gradually recovered under the use of anti-syphilitic remedies. The child from which she was vaccinated had condylomata round the anus when teeth- ing, as had a child born of the same parents previously, though their firstborn was healthy.  " For the facts which established these cases as instances of vaccinal syphilis, we refer our readers to the original paper, published in our columns. Suffice it to say that Mr. Hutchinson was able to bring the truth of his facts, as well as of his theories, home to the minds of those present. Difficulties were raised, but on the whole fairly answered. Thus, the question of immunity, experienced by some, seemed not easy to get over; but it was elicited that where several individuals were vaccinated from the same child, those who suffered were the last, or nearly so, who received lymph from the arm of the infected child.  " Heretofore it has not been admitted that, if due care be taken, syphilitic infection by vaccination is possible. Espe- cially has this been urged by the Crown officers when asked to encourage heifer vaccination.  " The facts now before the public will tend to rouse them, if   Vaccinal Syp/ii/is.   13   they have not been roused already, from the false security into which they have been lulled. And, as was slated at the meeting, it is plain that our compulsory vaccination laws can- not be maintained unmodified. It is true that the number of instances yet before us ' is. small, but we also well know the manifold inducements to keep these secret. In point of fact, nearly all the cases reported have crept out accidentally ; and if a full and searching investigation were made - could we for the time being create a medical ' Palace of Truth,' - we doubt not but that many more facts might be acquired. Nevertheless, what we do know suffices to warn us of the possibility of the dreadful contamination, and warns us to provide accordingly.  " In the meantime it is generally agreed that the vaccine lymph even of a syphilitic child, if perfectly pure, cannot communicate syphilis from one individual to another. This may be true, or it may not ; at all events, it is the current belief, and facts seem to uphold it. On the other hand, the impression is that if blood corpuscles, red or white, or other formed material, enter into the fluid used for vaccination, there is a risk of syphilitic contagion. It has been said that the infected individuals have been the last to be vaccinated from the diseased child ; and as it is the custom with some either to scrape or squeeze the vaccine vesicle with the lancet, to procure the greatest possible quantity of vaccinat- ing fluid, it would seem as if the corpuscles procurable from the walls of the vesicles were a possible means of contami- nation.  " But a serious question arises. In the instance of the lady seen by Mr. Hutchinson, there was a desire to obtain vacci- nation direct from the heifer, but no fluid could be obtained. The child selected was in many respects the picture of health at the time of vaccination, though subsequently condylo- mata were developed round its anus. As the law stands, infants must be vaccinated before they are three months old ; but, apart from snuffles, it is quite possible there may be no manifestation of constitutional syphilis till they are six or eight months old, or even it may be later. It is not fair to subject healthy infants to the risk of vaccination from others, which, though healthy at the time, may subsequently show signs of inherited taint. It is quite plain from past expe- rience that heifer vaccination cannot be kept up, save in times of public excitement, except Government intervene ; and it is not fair to subject people's children to risks such as   14   Vaccinal SypJiilis.   those which vaccination-syphilis implies, with no alternative save to go to prison. The risk admitted, the option must follow, or the law will fall to the ground. Moreover, the risk admitted, the practice of vaccinating many children from one is open to suspicion. And that the risk does exist, all, we think, must now admit. As regards prevention, Mr. Hutchinson thinks it of the first importance to diffuse the knowledge that vaccination-syphilis is possible, widely amongst the profession. Until all medical men believe in it, and fear it, we shall still be very unsafe. It is important next to avoid vaccinating from children whose parents are not known to the vaccinator ; and, further, to decline, for the most part, using first-born children, waiting until, by the development of one healthy child, a guarantee of freedom from taint on the part of the parents has been given. Lastly, the avoidance of blood-stained lymph, and of recent exuda- tion from the walls of the vesicle, is a precaution which needs no further mention. The thanks not only of the profession, but of the public, are due to Mr. Hutchinson for the pains he has taken in his self-imposed and ungrateful task. Had his cases been less convincing, or brought forward in a less perfect manner, he would have failed to convince us of the reality of the danger. He would have been looked upon as a raiser of false alarms, and the public would have again been lulled into dangerous security."   Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society.  (Condensed from the Medical Times and Gazette, Feb. 8, 1873O  DISCUSSION ON MR. HUTCHINSON'S PAPER, "VACCINO-SYPHILIS."  " Dr. George Harley said Mr. Hutchinson's former paper had given rise to disquietude, and had seemed to strengthen the hands of the small party which held out against vacci- nation. It was therefore the duty of the Society to put matters in the clearest possible light, so that there might be no mistake. It was at all times a difficult matter to say how long it was before syphilis left the system. He had seen in Munich a case where syphilis was communicated by inocu- lating the blood of a syphilitic individual. He himself   Vaccinal Syphilis.   believed that syphilis could not be communicated by vaccine lymph, though it might be by means of pus corpuscles or the fluid squeezed from the wall of the vesicle.  " Mr. Henry Lee said these cases were very complete, but Mr. Hutchinson did not insist on the fact that the individuals never had syphilis before. In people the subjects of consti- tutional syphilis, vaccination might light up the symptoms again, as he himself had seen. It was worthy of attention that, even when blood was inoculated, in only very few was syphilis produced. Syphilis will subside and recur in its manifestations. In those which caught, the blood might be taken from the patient just when the signs were about to burst forth.  " Mr. Hulke said that he had recently seen another case at Moorfields, as to which he had very little doubt in his own mind that it was vaccino-syphilis.  "In reply to a question by Dr. Poore, it was said that those who suffered were vaccinated last, or nearly so ; and to Dr. Buzzard, that the same instrument had been used throughout.  " Dr. E. Ballard said the value of such arguments must depend on matters of detail, so that we must be careful in coming to an opinion. As to blood, he had often been told by vaccinators that they never drew blood, or if they did, they did not use the lymph, whilst he had seen them wipe away from the vesicle the stained portion and employ the newly effused material. It was not necessary to use red corpuscles to introduce poisonous matter into the system.  " Mr. Savory thought Messrs. Smith and Hutchinson had fairly established their case, and he had no doubt but that there were many cases which circumstances prevented others from making public. That fluids could communicate the mischief was shown by the influence of semen in inherited syphilis. In vaccination-syphilis we only went a step further. we now believe that constitutional syphilis might be directly propagated from one to another, especially through the medium of the foetus. These facts were quite as strong as those relating to vaccino-syphilis.  " Mr. B. Carter said the tubes sent out by Government often contained flocculent material, as if from drainings of vesicles. That might well propagate syphilis.  " Mr. Morrant Baker suggested that the same lancet being used throughout might carry infection from one patient to another, supposing one operated on was syphilitic.   i6   Vaccinal Syphilis.   "Mr. Hutchinson said his cases were clearly due to vacci- nation, and the long period the disease might be latent without sign, was very alarming as far as vaccination went. They must investigate this point. It had been said that if a child reached four months without sign it would escape ; but this was not so. In many, syphilis really lies latent till puberty. Heifer vaccination was most important. The vaccination laws would have to be altered, or this source made available. Meanwhile, no heifer lymph was to be got. There was no reason to suppose that either patient had syphilis before. Certainly no vaccination could bring out primary syphilis. Are such cases extremely rare? He feared not; all these occurred to him in the way of ordinary practice. His second series were by a public vaccinator, who had no idea of their existence. Other surgeons were, he feared, in the same condition, and thus a false feeling of security prevailed."   MR. BRUDENELL CARTER.  (Medical Examiner, May 24, 1877.)  " I think that syphilitic contamination by vaccine lymph is by no means an unusual occurrence, and that it is very generally overlooked because people do not know either when or where to look for it. I think that a large proportion of the cases of apparently inherited syphilis are in reality vaccinal ; and that the syphilis in these cases does not show itself until the age of from eight to ten years, by which time the relation between cause and effect is apt to be lost sight of."   Here we conclude our extracts from leading medical men and medical journals containing admitted facts of the propa- gation of syphilis by vaccination. After these disclosures, may we not enlarge the statements of Rektor Siljestrom and Dr. Ricord at the beginning of this tract, and say confidently that the persistence in Compulsory Vaccination Laws now is nothing less than the deliberate incorporation of national syphilis by Parliament ?   Price id. j gd. per dozen ; 6s. per 100.   VACCINATION TRACTS   VACCINATION EVIL IN ITS PRINCIPLES, FALSE IN ITS REASONS, AND DEADLY IN ITS RESULTS.   No. 9.]   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1877   VACCINATION EVIL IN ITS PRINCIPLES, FALSE IN ITS REASONS, AND DEADLY IN ITS RESULTS.   VACCINATION AND THE VACCINATION LAWS IN THE LIGHT OF REASON AND PRINCIPLE.  I. There is nothing in the whole realm of nature which either directly or by analogy affords the slightest countenance to vaccination or the insertion into the living blood of a healthy human being of foul and venomous matter expelled by nature as incompatible with health. From the very fact of such expulsion, it is obvious that the practice is grossly anti-natural, and, there- fore, must always be injurious to a greater or less extent.  II. Common sense feels and sees at a glance that Vaccination is an absurd and dangerous thing. To collect the unclean product of disease in a brute beast and insert it forcibly into the blood of a healthy human being, especially of a tender infant, is a proceeding at which common sense revolts. But the practice of arm- to-arm vaccination, by which the original disease-matter, loaded with the accumulating taints of human disease, and thus inexpressibly polluted, is forced again and again into human organisms, in defiance of nature's reiterated protest in her constant efforts to expel it, is such horrible profanation, such absolute insanity, that we are fain to ask in amaze, Can these things be ?  III. The matter employed in this blood-poisoning is so corrupt and loathsome that doctors dare not call it by a true name, lest they should disgust the public. They fraudulently call it " pure lymph," though they well   Vaccination evil in its Principles.   3   know that such cannot be found in pustules or sores of any kind. A practice which needs the support of false- hood must be born of evil.  IV. Vaccination does not accord with any physiologi- cal law; it is not in agreement with any one of the physical sciences; it is not the embodiment of any truth ; there is no principle or eternal law that underlies or justifies it; it is impossible to construct an argument on any known truth to support it ; in a word, to vaccinate is to do evil under the blind persuasion that good will result, and is precisely as foolish as it would be to look for figs from thistles, or grapes from thorns.  V. Vaccination is a vain attempt to prevent or miti- gate smallpox without preventing, mitigating, or even touching the insanitary conditions, which are the causes of smallpox. It has, indeed, been alleged that  vaccination tion can steel the body against these contaminating influences; but if any device of man's could render filth wholesome, it is manifest that God's laws of order would thus be defeated by man's inventions ; which is impossible.  VI. Vaccination is a substitution for faithful obedience to the unchangeable laws of health, whereby alone health can be preserved and disease prevented. Such substitu- tion is not only necessarily futile, but, by inducing a false sense of security, it diverts attention from the un- cleanlinesses and disorders which are the causes of  smallpox , thus indirectly fostering these causes and aggravat- ing their result.  VII. Every truth is of universal application. The theory of vaccination is that a minor disease must be artificially given to prevent a major of the same kind. If this theory were a truth, it would be necessary to inflict every disease in a mild form to prevent it in its aggravated and dangerous form. And the same with moral diseases. Every sin must be implanted in its lesser, to prevent its development in a greater, degree ; as, for instance, equivocation, to guard against lying ; pilfering, to guard against housebreaking, etc., etc., all which is absurd.   4 Vaccination evil in its Principles.  VIII. Vaccination, which is the forcing of poisonous matter directly into the blood, into which nothing from without should ever immediately enter, is a violation of physiological law, and inevitably falls under the ban of true science.  IX. It is an indefeasible law of nature, that " whatso- ever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." From vaccination, therefore, which sows disease and corruption in the blood, the only harvest possible is a harvest of corruption and disease, too often culminating in death. Accordingly, we find, proportionately to the increase of vaccination, an enormous increase in mortality from smallpox itself, and of infantile mortality from those constitutional diseases - syphilis, consumption, scrofula, cancer, etc. - which are especially liable to be transmitted by vaccination. Nor is it possible to estimate what pro- portion of all kinds and forms of disease whatever is the direct product of this insane practice.  X. The vaccination theory implies, and vaccinators' and pro-vaccinators openly assert, that a healthy un- vaccinated child is a nuisance, as dangerous as a mad dog, a rabid horse, etc. Such wild talk is blasphemy against the Creator, who doeth all things well. Such a theory per se condemns any practice founded upon it.  XI. To enact a medical creed; to make health a crime ; to punish parents as criminals, because they will not allow their children to be diseased j to establish and endow the degraded office of the spy ; to authorize "uardians of the poor to interfere with the domestic life of independent citizens ; to filch from the poor-rates for the prosecution of respectable ratepayers ; to convert courts of law into courts of injustice ; to profane the very name of law by using it to trample upon parental rights,  all of which is done under the Vaccination Acts, - is  flagrant usurpation by Parliament of a power which no earthly government can claim, the power, _ namely, to interpose between man's conscience and his God, and to set aside God's law in favour of man's inventions.   Increase of Infant Mortality by Vaccination. 5  XII. Statistics, which, as a rule, are a mere assem- blage of figures put together for a given purpose, can never prove a falsehood. No possible array of figures could ever prove apes to be men, or owls to be eagles. Neither can they ever prove such a violation of God's laws of health and order as vaccination to be beneficial. On the other hand, they may, and generally when investi- gated do, confirm the truth, even when collected for the purpose of opposing it. Accordingly we find that even the Registrar-General's returns, imperfect and unreliable as they have been abundantly shown to be, prove con- clusively, when investigated by an impartial critic like Mr. Baxendell, that, as must have been expected from rational inference, compulsory vaccination, so far from stamping out smallpox, as by benighted doctors and legislators it was said to be able to do, has tremendously increased the mortality from this disease. In London, one of the best vaccinated cities in the world, Mr. Baxendell thus shows that the smallpox deaths under compulsory vaccination have increased at the rate of 132 per cent., which is surely enough to convince any candid and rational intellect that compulsory vaccination should be swept completely out of existence.  William and Mary C. Hume-Rothery.  Merton Lodge, Tivoli, Cheltenham, April 1877.   INCREASE OF INFANT MORTALITY.  The following statistical exposition of this subject is from the pen of Mr. George S. Gibbs, F.S.S., of Darling- ton, to whom the country is indebted for much accurate information with reference to vaccination : -  " Infant mortality is a subject which is more or less constantly occupying the attention of all who have the welfare of the country at heart. Ever since the estab- lishment of the General Register Office in 1838 it has   6 Increase of Infant Mortality by Vaccination.  been quite clear that the mortality of infants has propor- tionately far exceeded that of any other period of life up to the seventh decade; but the very recent publications of the Registrar-General show that this excessive mortality has been considerably added to, while in consequence of this, and in spite of all recent sanitary efforts, the general death-rate of the country remains at the same figure.  "Thus, we find in the 'Supplement to the Thirty-Fifth Annual Report of the Registrar-General,' just issued, at p. clxxxviii. the rates per 1000 living for the decades 1841-50, 1851-60, 1861-70, are each recorded at 22. But at p. xxvi. the death-rates for all ages and for infants are given thus :   " ' Annual Mortality per cent, of Males and Females in England and Wales : '   Age.  Males.  Females.  . '838-54 (17 years).  1838-71  (34 years).  1838-54 (17 years).  1838-71 (34 years).  All ages,  Under 5 years,.  2 '33 7-25  2 "33 7"26  2T7 6-23  2-I 5 6*27   "A note to this table refers to others given at pp. lxxxi. and lxxxiii. of the 'Thirty-Fourth Annual Report of the Registrar-General,' where we see at a glance that the increase of infants' deaths began with the year 1854. Thus, for males the rate in 1853 was 7-33, while for 1854 it was 7-77 ; and for females the respective rates for these years were 6*34 and 678; which means that in 1854, 44 more boys died for every 733 of the previous year, and of girls there died the same number (44) in excess for every 634.   Increase of Infant Mortality by Vaccination. 7  " In weighing one period against another, it is proper to take the average, or mean, of the rates before this sudden rise, and that of the years subsequent. We then find that the average yearly death-rate of male infants from 1838-53 was 6-96 per cent., and from 1854-71, 7*31 per cent., equivalent to a percentage increase of 5 ; also that the average yearly death-rate of female infants from 1838-53 was 6-19 per cent, and from 1854-71, 6-34 per cent., equivalent to a percentage increase of 2\. We do not, however, realize the full meaning of these things until we come to apply the rates to the substantive figures.  " We have therefore to turn again to our magazine of facts in the Supplement, and at p. 2 we find that, in the ten years 1861-70, there died, males under five years, 1,057,690; and of females under five years there died 913,610. Now, if these infants had died at the rate pre- vailing before the year 1854, the male deaths would have been one-twentieth less, or 52,884, and the female deaths one-fortieth less, or 22,840, - together, 75,724 ; or, to put it yet in one more different form, since the year 1854 there has been an annual excess of infant deaths of nearly 7600.  " So much for the figures ; these cannot be denied. The fact is deplorable, and efforts have not been lacking to discover the cause with a view to remedy or abate the evil. Among other things, Dr. Farr induced the Obstet- rical Society to investigate the subject, and the report of their Committee is appended to the Thirty-fourth Annual Report, at p. 225, et sea. The causes suggested are the ignorance of midwives, the culpable neglect of illegitimate children, the sordid neglect of children legitimate, the use of opiates, and infanticide. It is clear, however, that all these causes were in operation long before 1854, and indeed, from the Report, the Committee do not appear to have had their attention turned to the fact of a com- paratively recent increase, but have had in view simply the fact of excess. If they had had regard to the increase it   s   Vaccination causes Infantile Erysipelas.   is probable that they would not have thought of looking for the cause in the law which for the first time in England compelled the infliction of disease on all healthy infants. But the whole damage to infant life is not to be understood without taking into consideration that this practice prevailed to a certain extent before it was made compulsory ; and, therefore, when we attribute a certain increase of mortality to an increase of the practice we have to consider what proportion this increase bore to the whole. Mr. Simon, in his evidence, told the Parlia- mentary Committee in 1871 that he thought compulsion had 1 doubled'' the practice. If so, the whole mortality must be double the increase of mortality, or 15,200 per annum. I stated to the Committee myself a conclusion, arrived at from a study of the vaccination returns, that the practice had increased by one-half. If so, the whole mortality must be three times the increase of mortality, or 22,800 per annum. The Registrar-General, at p. 2 (Supplement), states the smallpox mortality under five years of age for the years 1861-70 at 1888 per annum, and in the epidemic year of 1871 it was 7770, still scarcely more than the number of excessive deaths from all causes consequent on the enforcement of a practice falsely supposed to prevent these. It is, therefore, statisti- cally demonstrated that vaccination causes very many more deaths than even in the worst times result from the smallpox."   VACCINATION A CAUSE OF INFANTILE ERYSIPELAS.  From "Vital Statistics, No. I." A letter to the Right Hon. G. Sclater-Booth, M.P., by C. T. Pearce, M.R.C.S. February, 1877.  " Let me now direct your attention to the sad increase of infantile Erysipelas concurrently with the increased number of infantile vaccinations.   " Suppressio vert" by a Coroner. 9  " Taking the five years 1860-4, and contrasting them with five more recent years, 1870-4, we find the follow- ing figures : -  "Deaths from Erysipelas.   Periods of five years.  Under 1 year old.  Under S years old.  All ages.  1st period, 1860-4 2nd period, 1870-4 .  2,698 3,550  3,280 4,021  8,754 11,600   " Thus the lamentable fact is apparent, that of the deaths from erysipelas at all ages, nearly one-third occurred in the first year of life - the year of  vaccination tion - while the total number was greatly in excess of that which can be accounted for by increase of population.  "Erysipelas is now an infantile disease, and it is to be noted that erysipelatous symptoms are the recognized efforts of proper vaccination. The connection, therefore, ^between vaccination and erysipelas is established, and has lately been fatally shown in the deaths of eight children in the Gainsborough Union, reported upon to your Board by Mr. J. Netten Radcliffe, one of the staff of Inspectors attached to the Local Government Board. In Leeds and Liverpool similar cases have occurred, and all may be taken as special instances confirmatory of the general deductions to be drawn from the tables herein contained."   EXTRACT FROM SPEECH OF DR. PEARCE, AT THE MARYLEBONE VESTRY HALL, LONDON, October 19, 1870.  " This frightful mortality of infants is the direct con- sequence of vaccination; a natural result; indeed,   to   Vaccino-Syphilis.   Jenner tells us that that vaccination is alone protective which is attended by erysipelas, while the spontaneous cowpox which is unattended by erysipelas is not protec- tive. Yet when children die of erysipelas following vaccination, the deaths are certified 'deaths from erysipelas' while the truth is concealed. The death should be certified properly, death from vaccination. But when an inquest is held in this parish, under the coronership of Dr. Lankester, on a child of Mr. Emery of Great Portland Street, although the evidence adduced to the jury clearly showed that the child died in conse- quence of vaccination, efforts are made to conceal the fact ; for while the jury unanimously returned a verdict 1 died from erysipelas caused by vaccifiation] the coroner's copy deposited at the Registrar-General's Office, Somerset House, certifies the additional words ' death by misadventure.' And with what object were those words added, but to screen the operator, by whose vaccinating hand another child also lost its life ( probably with the same lancet), on which the coroner for Westminster, Mr. Bedford, held an inquest? I do not say that Dr. Lankester intentionally suppressed the truth to save his professional brother, but I do say that it is highly dangerous to the community to have a medical coroner whose leanings in favour of his profession may lead him into partial verdicts. The duty of a coroner is to hear evidence and direct the jury as to the law, not to give opinions with a professional bias. Compulsory  vaccination tion may be defined to be manslaughter by Act of Parliament."   VACCINO-SYPHILIS.  In a paper on vaccino-syphilis read by Dr. Kesteven before the North London Medical Society, May 8, 1877, the doctor concludes in these words: "// is incredible by me that syphilitic virus can be taken out of a vaccine vesicle."   Vaccino-Syphilis.   1 1   The president regretted that he could not from his own experience quite agree with the views of Dr. Kesteven. He held that the inoculation of syphilis from one child to another by vaccination was certainly an established fact. Mr. Brudenell Carter thus expressed himself in a letter to Dr. Kesteven : -  " I think that syphilitic contamination by vaccine lymph is by no means an unusual occurrence, and that it is very generally overlooked because people do not know either when or where to look for it. I think that a large proportion of the cases of apparently inherited syphilis are in reality vaccinal, and that the syphilis in these cases does not show itself until the age of from eight to ten years, by which time the relation between cause and effect is apt to be lost sight of."  In the course of the debate on Dr. Kesteven's paper, Mr. Brudenell Carter said, " That during many years of experience in general practice he had never seen a case in which any manifest or immediate syphilitic disease had been communicated by or with vaccination ; but he thought there was a danger of a more subtle kind, which might easily be overlooked. He believed, or, as he might perhaps more properly say, he suspected, that lymph taken from a vaccinifer who was the subject even of latent inherited syphilis, would reproduce in the vaccinated the constitutional state of the child from which it was taken ; that is, that it would communicate a form of syphilis precisely resembling the inherited, and only to be distinguished from it by the absence of the in- heritance. Where he saw notched teeth of typical kind, and keratitis, and when in these cases there was not a trace of the same conditions in the next younger child of the family, nor any evidence, direct or conjectural, of syphilis in the parents, he thought we must look else- where than to inheritance for the source of the disease ; and a case of this kind which he had seen had presented so distinct a history of failing health from the date of vaccination that he had been led to suspect whether this   I 2   Vaccination propagates Leprosy.   had not been the channel through which the poison found entrance into the system. Since then he had seen several such cases. ... If he found a succession of cases, apparently of inherited syphilis, with no evidence of inheritance, and in which it could be shown that the patients had been vaccinated from children who had really inherited syphilis, then he should think it proved that the late form of syphilis which Mr. Hutchinson had taught us to call inherited might also be acquired in this particular manner."  It appears from the debate that the doctors are at issue on this question, when yet their unanimity would be the one small claim they could make for a Compulsory Vaccination law, - a claim from their own point of view as experts.  Rektor P. A. Siljestrom says, " One case of vaccino- syphilis ought to preclude such a law," and Dr. Ricord avers that one case of the transmission of other diseases should cancel vaccination as a practice. We recall here Curran's eloquent words when speaking of some of the atrocities perpetrated by the Government troops in Irish homes in his day : -  " Outrages like these are never solitary ; for when the public calamity generates imps like those, their number is as the sands of the sea, and their fury as insatiable as its waves. I am therefore anxious that our members should have one authenticated instance of the treatment which our unhappy country suffers under the sanction of their authority " - Speeches.   VACCINATION AND LEPROSY  The Medical Times and Gazette of the 25th of September 1869 contained a letter from Dr. Bakewell, Medical Officer of Health and Vaccinator-General of the colony of Trinidad. That gentleman writes thus : -  " Since I have been in Trinidad, and particularly since   Vaccination false in Politics.   13   I have been Vaccinator-General, my attention has been much directed to the subject of leprosy and its possible propagation by vaccination. It is a strange but un- doubted fact that leprosy is greatly increasing in this island, - that it is attacking the children of most respect- able parents who want nothing in the way of diet, etc. And moreover, it is attacking the children of Europeans, where there can be no possibility of hereditary taint. Now, it is worthy of remark, that in this island  vaccination tion has of late years been compulsory, and that a large proportion of the young people were actually vaccinated during an epidemic of smallpox a few years ago. The general opinion among medical men is, that it is quite possible that leprosy may be propagated in this manner. It is curious, too, that in those islands where vaccination is not much used there is very much less leprosy in pro- portion than here. The prejudice against vaqcination here is very strong, and solely, I believe, on this account."   ANTI-VACCINATION.  {From the " Cheltenham Telegraph" of March 3, 1877.)  " The question raised by Mr. J. D. Steel at the Board of Guardians on Thursday, namely, as to the right of any person to compel another to be vaccinated, is attracting a good deal of attention throughout the whole of England. Mr. Steel, alluding to the imprisonment of James Lea for refusing to have his child vaccinated, took the opportunity of asking by whose authority- proceedings were instituted against him, and also of presenting to the Board, for their signature, a petition for the repeal of the Compulsory clauses of the  vaccination tion Act. With the value of vaccination as a prophy- lactic or preventative of smallpox we have nothing to do. The question is, By what right does the Government of this country compel people to submit to an operation   "4   Vaccination false in Politics.   the utility of which is open to question, simply upon the faith of a theory promoted by the medical profession ? England, we are told, is a free country ! On every hand Ave hear boastings of our progress, our civilization, and our enlightenment ; and, gazing upon the Turk, we thank Heaven that we are not as other nations are. But, if it is true that we are free, how is it that the State holds in its hands a power so despotic that at its will a father loses control over his own offspring, and is compelled to submit his children to the operation of vaccination whether he believes in the wisdom of the procedure or not? The operation of the Vaccination Acts not only controls the body, but coerces the mind ; for by it no man is at liberty to exercise his own "opinion. Yet England is a free country ! That this system cannot much longer remain in force is abundantly testified by the numerous protestation meetings that are being held all over the country. Scarcely a town in England, no matter how insignificant and small it be, but has had its public meeting to protest against this State despotism. And before many years have passed away, we shall find the question assume as gigantic political importance, as did the vexed question of the repeal of the Corn Laws. We have said we do not mean in this article to say one word for or against aaccination ; nor do we. State compulsion is the only question with which we have to deal. According to the present working of the Act each Board of Guardians is compelled to elect a  vaccination tion Officer, whose duties are to call from house to house and personally ascertain that all children over the age of three months are vaccinated. These officers are not medical men, but simply another grade of nuisance in- spectors. The power exercised by them is apparently almost unlimited. The blindness of the pro-vaccinators is something really ludicrous. The surest way to destroy faith in any dogma, whether social, political, or religious, is to resort to compulsion ; and this truth has been abundantly proved in the history of our time. Speaking   The Fallacy of the Mitigation Dogma. 1 5  on the subject at the Board of Guardians, Mr. Haines, J. P., said Lea desired to be made a martyr. Granted. Then how utterly devoid of common sense must the Bench of Magistrates have been who permitted him to have his desire ! Create martyrs, and you ensure con- verts. Nothing would please the anti-vaccinators better than to have persons daily imprisoned for non- vaccination tion : such an outcry would be raised in England that before the birth of 1878 the Vaccination Acts would be totally repealed. The question of vaccination is clearly one that ought to be optional. Provided the State were to ordain that no one should eat beef, but that every one should be compelled to eat mutton, how long would the people endure such tyranny ? Yet a precisely similar case is here. The law stands thus : You shall not pre- vent your children contracting smallpox by means of attention to sanitary surroundings, but you shall have them vaccinated whether you believe in vaccination or not. Will any one doubt now that England is indeed a free country ! "   THE FALLACY OF THE MITIGATION DOGMA.  The following table has two important bearings : - r. It shows that before the time of vaccination, the percentage of deaths from smallpox in hospital was no more than it is at present. And, inasmuch as the deaths in the figures below the line include a great many vaccinated persons, demonstration is afforded that vaccination has had no effect in diminishing the average. 2. The table shows that medical treatment and success have made no advances since the last century, and this in spite of sanitary conditions which are greatly in favour of patients now ) - in spite also of the march of science, with chemistry and vivisection, that vaunted " saviour of valuable lives," as assistants to the profession. Considering the better   i6   The Fallacy of the Mitigation Dogma.   circumstances of ventilation and cleanliness and food with which patients are treated now, it is reasonable to conclude that that treatment has gone backwards, not forwards, which produces as bad results of death as the method which was in vogue before vaccination was introduced. This is a serious consideration for us all, because any one, at the bidding of a doctor, may be torn from his home and taken into hospital. Ought not Parliament in this view to inquire whether the hospital doctors make use of the new ways of treatment, or whether the vaccinators' hospitals are indeed a slough of hopeless and heartless routine ?   Fatality of Hospital smallpox cases before and since the adoptioti of Vaccination compared.   Date.  Authority.  Cases.  Vac- cinated.  Deaths.  Percent- age of Deaths.  1723  Jurin  I7..I5I  None  2,848  i6-6  1779  Rees' Cyclopaedia  400  Do.  72  18-0  1700-63  Duvillard  24,594  Do.  4,635  18-85  1836-51  1871-72  1875-76  1870-72  1876  1877  M arson  Metropolitan Hospitals Liverpool Glasgow Hospital Metropolitan Hospitals Do., Oct. 2 1st 1876 to Sept. 21st 1877  5.652 1 4, 80S 180  958 1,470  7.333  3.094 11,174  133 669  1,129  2,763  33 149  338 1,329  19-97 18-66 18-33 I5-4  23-0  iS-i   Average mortality in the pre- vaccination period, 17-64 per cent.  Average mortality since the adoption of vaccination, 18-83 per cent.   Price id. each ; 9d. per dozen ; 6s. per hundred.   VACCINATION TRACTS   VACCINATION SUBVERTS DENTITION, AND IS A CAUSE OF THE PREVALENT DEFORMITY AND DECAY OF THE TEETH   [No. 10.]   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1877   VACCINATION SUBVERTS DENTITION, AND IS A CAUSE OF THE PREVALENT DEFORMITY AND DECAY OF THE TEETH.  Vaccination attacks and invades the system during the first year of life, when the teeth are coming, and with a constitutional force, as the vaccinators tell us, so power- ful, and so lasting, that the infant, and the child after- wards for several years, may be steeped in surrounding smallpox, and either not catch the disease, or take it in a comparatively mild form. Vaccination, where blood is not drawn, violates the cellular tissue of the babe, injecting into it poisoned lymph, and thus communicating a virus to the lymphatic system, which takes its origin all over from the cellular tissue. The germs of the teeth are at first cells, and may be called cell-germs, and are, like the rest of the bodily organs in their beginning, cellular, and closely akin to the cellular system. In short, the body in a wide sense is lymph ; a fluid which is both below the blood as a pabulum, and above the blood as an interior constituent ; and the blood globules are surrounded by and live in it under the form of serum. This universal fluid of the body is what vaccination enters and diseases. This fluid which has contact with every part, including the brain and the mind, and the skin from head to foot, may, according to vaccinators, be entered and poisoned, and no harm of contagion can be done to the infant if no blood is drawn by the vaccinating lancet  Passing this by, observe the coincidence of events. Nature, that is to say, the God of nature, is making   Vaccination subverts Dentition. 3  teeth out of cells arrl their fluids. The State, through the medical profession, in the very months when this happens, is poisoning, with one known poison, and with many unknown poisons, the whole cellular system of the body by vaccination. Can the two things go on together without meeting? Can dentition, itself a process of development often painful and dangerous, fail to struggle against the poison of vaccination, and to intensify its natural throes in the face of the aggressor ? Can vaccination fail to pervert and vaccinate, that is to say, empoison, the infant teeth ; to arrest their forma- tion, to malform their human shape, and to prepare them for decay ? And as the germs of the second teeth lie under the first, ready in providential order to develop the teeth of youth in time, is it possible that the assault on the first teeth should not strike the second also ? and moreover, that the diseases of the second period of life, contained in the vaccination, should not add themselves to the result of vaccination as puberty comes on ?  The same reasoning applies to the bones and to all the glands of the body : formed out of cells, element by element, they are all penetrated, perverted, interiorly deformed, and perhaps exteriorly also, by the diseasing vaccine. And here, be it observed, that vaccine, with every year, contains increasing complexities of pollution, simply because it is taken from the lymph of a larger and longer line of mankind. And even were it taken from the calf, the calf is first inoculated from man, and therefore yields his pollutions ; and syphilized calves can only heap up unnatural virus on the point of the Govern- ment lancet.  At present, however, we deal with the teeth; and, having premised these physiological truths, we turn to observation, and find them confirmed by facts, and by the opinions of eminent vaccinators.  Vaccinators are divided into two classes. First, those who contemplate the morbid results of vaccination as extending over just the period of the vaccine disease,   4   Vaccination Tracts.   that is to say, two or three weeks. These observers admit disease so far, and afterwards suppose a defen- sive power of health accruing from the vaccination. They regard it as a delightful disease. Vaccination with them is a small wicket-gate of local suffering, opening and leading into flowery meads where  smallpox  pustules never bloom. These men (and they are the majority) are the optimists of vaccination. They declare that they have seen thousands of cases, - one physician as many as forty thousand, - where no harm has resulted from vaccination. That means that he has heard of the cases for on an average about ten days. It also means that he is one of those that allege that erysipelas, and the numerous other ailments which vaccinated babes show during those ten days, have nothing to do with the vaccination, but that the babes themselves are in fault, and the current disorders of the neighbourhood. In confirmation of this, see coroners' inquests on dead vaccinated children, at Liverpool, Leeds, Sheffield, et passim.  The optimist vaccinators have two peculiar eyes : one eye sees the vaccinated for three weeks and no longer; the other eye sees what it likes, and nothing else.  The other class of vaccinators look onwards in the life of the vaccinated child, and observe the facts that present themselves. These physicians do not meddle with the three-weeks men. They see that syphilis has undeniably attacked infants and adults after vaccination and re-vaccination. They register the certainty. That fact once established (and it is established beyond denial) they reason physiologically from it. Syphilis is not a rare disease, in forms more or less latent, in human constitutions. That being the case, hereditary con- stitutional syphilis is not rare in babies. That being the case, vaccination from infants possessed of syphilitic heredity is not rare in any class of society. And by parenthesis, syphilitic heredity is the subtlest and highest syphilis, - the syphilis of the proudest descent and the greatest prestige. That being the case, this syphilis may   Vaccination subverts Dentition.   5   be looked for just as heredity is looked for, it may with scient certainty be expected to come forth just as cancer, consumption, scjofula, madness, and the like fortunes of evil come forth, in the periods and epochs of life. That being the case, vaccine syphilis may be expected in various forms in puberty.  Now this class of vaccinators, - not the three-weeks men, - declare from observation that this is the case ; and that syphilis, from which disease we now take illustration, does show its effects upon the teeth at puberty, lying latent till then ; and that many cases of decayed and deformed teeth in young people are syphilitic cases. This is put in somewhat the following fashion. Let there be a family of six children, all vaccinated. Five out of the six have the usual make of teeth; but one, say the fourth, has small, corroded, nipt teeth, " notched teeth of a typical kind/' prone to decay. The presumption here is, that that child has been syphilized by vaccination; and its teeth are syphilitic teeth. Of course the author of this remark knows what syphilized teeth are ; for he is an authority upon syphilis. The same eminent man tells us that inflam- mation of the cornea, producing opacity of the window of the eye, is often vaccino-syphilitic ; so that of the numerous family of vaccination, according to this genea- logist, blindness is to be reckoned as one member; and toothlessness is its brother : which reminds us of a saying of Swedenborg, that evils have families and consanguinities like men and women.  After these prefatory remarks, we adduce the evidence of a dentist of almost worldwide experience, whose views have been formed with no knowledge of anti- vaccinators, from unexpected facts, producing inde- pendent conviction in his mind. We here insert by permission the following pamphlet by Mr. Albert Carter, Surgeon Dentist.   6   Vaccination Tracts.   OUR FATHERS' TEETH WERE SOUND : WHY DO OUR CHILDREN'S TEETH DECAY?  That the teeth of the rising generation are decaying in a manner without precedent in the history of mankind is a fact that no one who has concerned himself about the matter will deny ; and no dentist can have been in practice for any length of time without being impressed with the frequency and anxiety with which people ask, "What can the cause of this dreadful affliction be?" They will tell him : " My father died when upwards of seventy years of age with every tooth sound in his head; my mother's teeth fell out sound when she had reached an advanced age; whereas I have scarcely a tooth left ; and as for my children, their teeth are all decaying. What can the cause be?"  Much has been written to show that decay of the teeth is caused by drinking hot drinks and eating warm soft food ; but our ancestors had warm soft food as well as we, and if we look beyond our own country to the millions of Asia, we see that such an idea has no founda- tion ; for from time immemorial the food of the Hindoos has been soft warm boiled rice, and still softer fruit, and yet their teeth as a rule are free from decay. And as to the influence of warm drinks, the Chinese drink warm tea from morning till night, but their teeth do not suffer. Again, there is a generally-received notion that sugar in all its forms and preparations is prejudicial to the teeth; and yet it is difficult to understand the foundation for such belief when we see sugar-eating peoples of sugar-growing countries keeping their teeth sound. With far greater reason and justice it has been urged that decay of teeth is but one of many phases of injured health and deteriorated vital power, resulting from overcrowding in our great centres of population, with want of pure air, want of pure water, want of light, in short, want of purity and wholesomeness, calling   Vaccination subverts Dentition.   7   forth, as these things do, disease in its most virulent and bitter forms. But we are unable to accept even this explanation as sufficient to account for the general decay of the teeth at the present time, because we find that it afflicts alike the dwellers in the country mansion and country cottage, the city palace and the city den ; and if we look beyond our own borders to the experi- ence of other peoples, we find nothing to support such a view. No people, as a people, have been more sub- jected to the influence of crowded and unwholesome cities than the Chinese. They spend their lives in conditions the most repugnant to health, crowding together like bees in a hive, without drainage or venti- lation, feeding in many instances upon the most obscene food, giving rise to leprosy, gangrene, necrosis, oph- thalmia, and terrible forms of skin diseases ; and yet their teeth remain good. On the other hand, the rural population of Germany and France now suffers to such an extent that a sound set of teeth is a rarity among them ; and our own farmers and their families suffer as severely as the inhabitants of our cities.  If we enter the consulting room of a dentist in good practice in any part of England, and take note of the patients who visit him, we see that all classes alike stand in need of his assistance. Clergymen and country gentle- men, merchants and manufacturers, farmers and trades- men, seek his door. One day we see a youth who has not attained his full stature requiring an entire set of teeth; and then a lady, but little more than a child, brought up in the country, with every advantage of fresh- ness and light, her bright, intelligent face proclaiming her the daughter of a noble race and high civilization ; and when she opens her lips you see her teeth a mass of decay, and find her breath unsweet. And this experi- ence of English dentists is fully confirmed by the dentists of America ; for we find Dr. White, a celebrated dentist of Philadelphia, writing in The Dental Cosmos for Jannary, 1877: "It will not, I think, be denied by any   8   Vaccination Tracts.   observing practitioner whose observation embraces repre- sentatives of three or four generations, that from the great-grandparents to their children and their children's children there is a general continuous deterioration in the quality of the dental outfit through the successive generations. All the facts of professional experience which have been gathered, all the improved modes of practice which the best heads and hearts have thus far developed, have not sufficed to stem the tide which seems destined to render the human race edentulous," - that is, toothless.  This is an alarming state of things ; in the whole of the past history of the world no record is to be found of any people having suffered thus. Surely some law of God and nature has been outraged to bring upon c ur children so dire an affliction ; and it is to be hoped that members of the medical profession may be induced to open their eyes to the fact, and aid by all means in their power to frame some answer to the inquiry, How has this state of things been brought about? How is it that this affliction has come upon us within the present century?  Many theories are advanced to account for it, but above all theories let us have facts ; let us have a true account of things as they exist at this present time ; let facts bearing on the matter be gathered from every quarter of fee earth, and we may then hope to obtain some light to aid us in the inquiry. The writer of the present paper, during a course of rather extended travel, has examined the teeth of men in nearly all conditions of civilization and barbarism; and the outcome of his observation amounts to this, that wherever the people are not vaccinated their teeth are sound, but wherever the practice of vaccination has been introduced, the teeth of the people deteriorate, just in proportion as the population comes under the influence of vaccine.  More than twenty years ago, when travelling in Hindostan, I was struck by the soundness of teeth with   Vaccination subverts Dentition.   9   which the people were blessed, contrasting, as they did, so strongly with the decay and suffering I had witnessed while assisting in my father's practice in London ; and I endeavoured to institute a comparison between the teeth of the high-caste Brahmins, living, as they do, on a purely vegetable diet, and the low-caste Pariahs, who have no scruples as to what they eat or drink. But I found it impossible to do this, from the extreme dislike the Brahmins evinced to having their mouths examined. Yet from all I could see or hear upon the subject, I gathered, that dental decay, as we know it and suffer from it in Europe and America, is an unknown disease among them, and that they only lose their teeth by advancing years. Although the Brahmins would not allow me to examine their mouths in life, I had an opportunity of satisfying myself upon the subject when death had done its work. One day while I was in Calcutta, a low-caste native sought permission to see me, and brought in his hand an inexpressibly dirty looking bundle, and seating himself on the ground after the fashion of natives who have anything to sell, undid his bundle, and displayed to my astonishment a collection of human teeth, which he declared to be Brahmins' teeth, and told me he had taken them from skulls upon the banks of the Ganges, the sacred river of the Hindoos, into which the bodies of the pious Brahmins are cast. I examined them, and found most of them greatly injured by the action of the sun and the water, but there was no trace of decay. I purchased them of the man to send to England as a curiosity, but they were unfortu- nately lost in transit. Often subsequently, while travelling in the valley of the Ganges, I examined the skulls on the banks of the river, but never saw one showing general dental decay such as we are acquainted with at home.  In the Punjab and North-Western Provinces, both in the plains and mountains, I found that all the people, whether Hindoos, Sihks, Punjabees, Afghans, or 10   Vaccination Tracts.   Goorkas, are provided with splendid teeth, and, as a rule, only lose them from age ; and throughout the whole length and breadth of the Indian Peninsula I have never seen any people suffering from dental decay except those who have been vaccinated; that is to say, people of purely European, or mixed European and Asiatic parentage ; and these suffer as badly as, if not worse than, any people in the world.  Again, in Ceylon I found that while the native Cinga- lese had nothing to complain of in their teeth, the young people of European parentage who had been vaccinated were suffering dreadfully. In Burmah also, I found the very small population who had been vaccinated very generally suffering from dental decay, while the Burmans themselves appeared to be exempt, except indeed whe e they had filed off their teeth from conventional ideas of beauty. In Australia the same remarkable phenomenon presented itself. I found the dentists of Melbourne hard at work repairing the ravages of disease, and ascer- tained, upon inquiry, that the colonial-born portion of the population suffered with unusual severity from dental caries ; but while I was in the interior I met with a part of the aborigines, and induced them to allow me to examine their teeth, and found them provided with teeth of the African type, but without the slightest trace of decay. It is therefore clear that it is neither the climate, the water, nor the physical conformation of a country, that causes decay ; neither is it diet, for the vegetarian Brahmin, and the flesh-eating, grog-drinking Pariah, are alike blessed with sound teeth. Is it, then, a disease peculiar to the Caucasian race ? After what I had seen in India and Australia, I began to think it really must be so ; but more extended travel in the Malay Peninsula and Indian Archipelago convinced me that other races could be made to suffer. The Malays, like the Burmese, file their teeth to make them smooth and even, and consequently sometimes suffer from decay where the enamel has been removed, but otherwise they   Vaccination subverts Dentition. 1 1  have as sound teeth as other Asiatics. The Chinese, who settle in large numbers in the Straits Settlements, under the British Government, and in Java and other islands under the Dutch, although not so entirely free from decay as the Malays or natives of India, have yet wonderfully sound teeth as compared with modern Europeans, being in this respect not unlike our own forefathers, who carried their teeth with them to the grave, or lost them from old age or the deposition of tartar. Now these Chinamen having sound teeth marry Malay women having sound teeth, and their children have sound teeth; but in Singapore and Penang the well-to-do part of them follow the example of their European neighbours and have their children vaccinated, and those children grow up to be men and women with teeth as decayed as any people in the world.  Again, the Dutch Government has for some years past made vaccination compulsory in the island of Java, and though as yet the people at large do net appear to be suffering very severely from its action, most of the princes and nobility have their teeth decayed.  Seeing, then, that vaccination is accompanied in all parts of the world by rottenness of teeth, is it unreason- able to conclude that it is in some way the cause of that rottenness? In considering the probable effect of vaccination upon the teeth, it must be remembered that the child's health is affected by it just when the germs of the permanent teeth are undergoing their earliest formation. Now, no fact is better known to physiolo- gists than that any severe constitutional derangement in early childhood leaves an indelible mark upon the teeth. And as it has not yet been ascertained what change takes place in the character of the disease variola vaccinia, when it is transferred from the bovine to the human circulation, it is but reasonable to regard it with suspicion. For it is known that when vaccine virus is introduced into sheep it evolves a disease of which the animal wastes away and dies.   I 2   Vaccination Tracts.   But even supposing it possible to demonstrate that violently induced cowpox exerts no influence whatever upon the formation of the teeth, the question still remains as to whether other diseases are not introduced into the circulation by means of the vaccine lymph. As a matter of fact, we know that this constantly takes place, and is daily becoming a cause of greater anxiety to thoughtful members of the medical profession; and although it is true that many forms of constitutional derangement in early childhood will leave their impress upon the teeth, there is no disease that so constantly inflicts severe lesio?is of those organs as inherited syphilis. This leads directly to the appalling question, " Is it not possible that the destruction of the teeth that so steadily follows in the wake of vaccination arises from syphilis convey d from infant to infant at the lancet's point 1 "  Unhappily for England there no longer remains a doubt that syphilis is being spread through the length and breadth of the land, having not only garrison and seaport towns as centres of contagion, but all places to which strangers and travellers resort. A recent writer in the Medical Times and Gazette says, "It is a question whether there be a single family in Liverpool that has resided there for two or three generations which is wholly free from some hereditary taint ; " and yet from their children other children are vaccinated.  The Legislature has made vaccination compulsory upon the entire population; therefore a little thought must convince the most reckless or indifferent that this is a question of the greatest possible magnitude, involving our strength as a military power and our very existence as a people* And even if we concede to vaccine all the protecting power against smallpox its most earnest advocates claim for it, we must still denounce it as one of the grossest errors of this or any other age.  smallpox, like plague, cholera, and other develop- ments of zymotic disease, is but a minister of mercy * See Note, p. 23.   Vaccine Syphilis in the Teeth.   *3   clothed in severity, and sent to warn us of danger, - to make clear to us our degradation, and to lead us out of the slough of our depravity. Who can doubt that cholera, since its first introduction into England, has saved more lives than it has destroyed by the sanitary improvements it has stimulated ? Vice versct, it is difficult to estimate the amount of good that has been prevented, and the injury that has been inflicted, by Dr. Jenner's well-intended but most mischievous device. He made known his supposed discoveiy for the prevention of smallpox just as the wealth-creating power of steam was beginning to be felt. Had he and his ideas perished, the dread of the smallpox alone would have counter- acted many of the most glaring evils the plethora of wealth has entailed upon us. For it has come with a common law framed by, and suited to, a people whose numbers represented their capacity of production. But now that the latent forces of nature have been impressed into our service, the producing power of the people has increased tenfold. Yet owing to the development of the law not being equal to the emergency, the tide of pro- sperity that should have benefited and elevated the entire population, has been diverted by the more cunning and selfish into channels that lead to very cesspools of effeminacy and vice. Thus hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of Englishmen and Englishwomen are worked early and late, dwarfed, diseased, and idiotized, to produce tinsel and trumpery, and to pander to the arrogance and vanity of a set of beings who but a genera- tion back belonged to the very dregs of the population, and who, if the smallpox had been left alone, would from selfish fear of their own faces have realized the fact, that breathing-space, pure air, pure water, and wholesome conditions of life generally, are necessary to all, to secure the safety and wellbeing of all. But the voice of nature has been, or rather is supposed to have been, stifled, and the silly money grubbers wallow on in a sense of false security, seizing all the open spaces, and building   I 4   Vaccination Tracts.   hideous piles of buildings even for their dogs and horses, while the great majority of this might-be great nation are huddled into dens and slums to fester and generate dis- ease ; whereas if we had but laws equal to our develop- ment, founded on the legal maxim " salus populi suprema lex," laws that would enable us to utilize our boundless working power aright, there would be no need for either crowding or foulness in any shape, and the smallpox, like the plague, would depart from our shores. But Dr. Jenner and his followers have allayed the fears of the men who at present have the making of the laws, and the dens, and slums, and foul sinks remain ; but, thanks to Almighty God ! smallpox is not the only disease wrong and misery generates, but the fever bred in the dens stalks up into the gilded palaces, and gives a cold, practical answer to the inquiry, " Am I my brother's keeper ? "  " Let us do evil that good may come" is a falsehood as old as the human race. In one age it shows itself in one enormity ; in another period of history, the sacer- dotalists through several centuries murder, torture, rob, lie, or cheat, the better to enable them to teach other people not to murder, torture, rob, lie, or cheat. And just when the last cries of their victims are dying away, the medical world busy themselves in diseasing every child born, with the pious intention of making the population healthy. And this idea having once taken possession of their mind, they are becoming daily more anxious to spread and develop it. One worthy member of the profession remarked to the writer that he sincerely wished he could discover some such preventive for fever, whooping-cough, scarlatina, and other diseases to which children are liable. Now sup- pose this idea of communicating disease as a preventive of disease had been acted upon in England for the last three hundred years, what would have been the state of our country to-day? The writer believes we should have been of all nations the weakest and most loathsome.  At one time official cupidity, apathy, and ignorance,   Vaccination causes Sanitary Stupor. 15   had crowded the jails without the slightest regard to either health or decency, until a disease known as the jail fever was generated, a disease of so malignant a type that it became almost an act of deliberate murder to place a man within its influence. No efforts, however, were made to overcome it, and the jails became year by year more deadly centres of disease, until at last out- raged Nature made her voice heard by the swift messenger of death accompanying the prisoners from the cells into the court, and with holy and impartial justice striking down judge, jury, accuser, and accused alike. And then men opened their dull eyes to the fact that by the fiat of the Eternal Will man cannot injure his brother man without retribution following. The result was that the surviving judges felt a lively interest they never before had felt both in the prisoners and prisons, and the prisons were cleansed and jail fever disappeared, and is now a thing of the past. Now supposing some clever Dr. Jenner of that day had succeeded in persuad- ing the people in authority that disease taken from toads and punctured into the bodies of the prisoners would have rendered them innoxious to all but them- selves, think you they would not have so defiled them ? Assuredly yes, and the prisons would have been left uncleansed.  Not many years ago scurvy was the scourge of both our Royal and Mercantile Navies, and the terror of sea- faring men. Now again suppose the typical Dr. Jenner had been able to persuade a majority in Parliament that a mild form of itch taken from the ears of an ass would fortify honest Jack against scurvy, we should have had the whole of our noble seamen subjected to compulsory asinine itch, and our ships would have remained as foul and badly provisioned now as then. But as no ingeni- ous individual led them into such error, the nation took alarm at the fearful loss of life and property resulting from scurvy, and passed laws compelling the shipowners to treat their sailors with something approaching to decency,   1 6   Vaccinatio?i Tracts.   and to carry provisions and water not altogether poison- ous; and scurvy has almost disappeared from ships carrying the English flag.  Suppose yet another case, that when the nation was in its highest state of alarm about the Plague of London, some predecessor of Dr. Jenner had coaxed it into the belief that a nice little circle of Chinese ringworm was a sure protection against the plague ; and laws had been passed to make ringworm obligatory ; what would have been the result ? If the plague had died out, as it did, the people would have attributed its subsidence to the Chinese ringworm, just in the same way as people now attribute the subsidence of smallpox to vaccination, and they would have gone on ringworming themselves. But if, on the other hand, the plague had continued, they would have argued that the ringworm had not taken suffi- cient hold upon their constitution, and that both the size and number of the blotches must be increased. Just thus the worthy people of Berlin, after vaccinating and re-vaccinating themselves, find that the smallpox carries them off now four times as fast as it does the people of London ; and they argue that they have not yet vaccine enough to sweeten their circulation, and insist upon twenty punctures in their bodies instead of three.  Whenever Lord Lytton's dream shall be realized, and the "History of Human Error" be written, it is hard to say how prominent a place will be assigned to the enact- ment of Penal Laws to compel parents to overcome every guiding instinct of their nature, and yield up their children to be wounded and diseased, in the hope of escaping one particular form of disease. For if there be one fact to be gathered more clearly than another from the tables of mortality, it is that the death-rate of a community is controlled not by drugs and tricks, but by the whole conditions of its existence and surroundings, in other words, by the high or low state of the general health, and that the prevalence or absence of any par- ticular development of disease has little or no effect upon   Vaccination causes Sanitary Stupor.   17   the main result. When death slays its thousands by  smallpox , it perhaps only takes hundreds by whooping-cough or measles ; and when it takes but hundreds by  smallpox , it takes thousands by whooping-cough, measles, or typhus. If the conditions of life are favourable and the period healthy, the sum total of deaths will be small, although one particular form of disease may accomplish the greater part of the work. But when the period is unhealthy, and the conditions of life unfavourable, the mortality will be large, although no disease takes an epidemic form. Therefore, however much it may be the duty of the physician to deal with special diseases, it is the duty of the statesman to direct the energies of the nation to the adoption of such measures as will improve the general health, and strengthen it against the attack of disease in -whatever guise or form it may present itself. And this most certainly will not be accomplished by adding to the many dangers and difficulties of early infancy a disease, the character and duration of which is utterly unknown to its inflictors, and which, from all the evidence now being collected in this country and on the Continent, seriously lowers the child's health and chances of life. A disease also, to sum up the special informa- tion of this tract, that by preying upon the teeth of the human family emasculates digestion, and dethrones beauty from the lips. Such is the irony of natural consequence here. Vaccination, whose main stronghold is the panic-fear of the loss of beauty in the face, rots the teeth out of the nations in order that the people may cower along under the conceit that they will not be pitted on the cheeks. Fair readers ! which pit is the worst, the certain pit of a decayed mouth for a great part of the human race, for your children and children's children, or the possible pitting, generally due to defective treatment, of a few faces, out of the minute percentage of individuals who in the natural course of things can ever take the smallpox.   is   Vaccination Tracts.   THE PROPAGATION OF SYPHILIS TO IN- FANTS AND ADULTS BY VACCINATION AND RE- VACCINATION.  The controversy as to the possibility of vaccination being the medium of communication of other diseases is of old standing. Willis and Mosely declared in Jenner's time that syphilis was propagated in this way from arm to arm.  M. Ricord. - " The obvious fact is, that if ever the trans- mission of disease with vaccine lymph is clearly demon- strated, vaccination must be altogether discotitinued ; for in the present state of science, we are in possession of no criterion Avhich may permit the conscientious practitioner to assert that the lymph with which he inoculates is per- fectly free from admixture with tainted blood.  " At first I repelled the idea that syphilis could be transmitted by vaccination. The recurrence of facts appearing more and more confirmatory, I accepted the possibility of this mode of transmission, I should say, with reserve, and even with repugnance, but to-day I hesitate no more to proclaim their reality."  Dr. Ballard. - " i. There are numerous cases on record to prove that the vaccine virus and the syphilitic virus may be introduced at the same spot by the same puncture of the vaccinating lancet.  " 2. From several instances on record, there can re- main no reasonable doubt that the vaccine virus and the syphilitic virus may both be drawn at the same time, upon the same instrument, from one and the same vesicle.  "3. The vesicle which is thus capable of furnishing both vaccine and syphilitic virus may present, prior to being opened, all the normal and fully developed char- acters of a true Jennerian vesicle ordinarily met with."  Dr. Farr. - "Syphilis . . . was, so far as it was re-   Authorities on Vaccine Syphilis.   i9   corded, twice as fatal in the five years 1870-74 as it was twenty years ago. Its most fatal recorded forms occur in children under one year of age. Thus of nearly 2000 deaths ascribed to syphilis (in 1874) 1484 were babies under one year of age."  In London alone, from January 1, 1872, to December 31 1876, 1801 children under five years of age died of syphilis, the rate of such deaths having doubled since the passino- of the Compulsory Vaccination Act m 1853. From °these probably thousands of healthy children were vaccinated and contaminated.  G. S. Gibbs, Esq., F.S.S., has calculated that in addition to the deaths 'of over 300 children per annum, under one year, of syphilis in London, there are 800 afflicted with this 'disease who survive, and who on being vaccinated furnish impure lymph for the lifelong contamination of human beings.  James R. Lane, F.R.C.S., Consulting Surgeon to the' London Lock Hospital.-" It is clearly proved that syphilitic blood may convey syphilis, but it is not yet proved that vaccine lymph from a syphilitic child, however carefully taken, will not also convey it ; and it would therefore be the height of imprudence to act on any such belief."  The Medical Times and Gazette. - ''That syphilis could not be communicated by vaccination was, though admitted abroad, long disputed in this country. Since the publication of Mr. Hutchinson's paper, and a com- munication by Mr. Thomas Smith to the Clinical Society, where the patient was exhibited, it can no longer be so. We have now emerged from the region of doubt to one of belief in the possibility of such an occurrence, and we have promptly begun to seek a remedy for the possible evil. . . .  " The facts now before the public will tend to rouse   20   Vaccination Tracts.   them, if they have not been roused already, from the false security into which they have been lulled. ... It is plain that our compulsory vaccination laws cannot be maintained unmodified. It is true that the number of instances yet before us is small, but we also well know the manifold inducements to keep these secret. In point of fact, nearly all the cases reported have crept out accidently ; and if a full and searching investigation were made - could we for the time being create a medical ' Palace of Truth,' - we doubt not but that many more facts might be acquired. Nevertheless, what we do know suffices to warn us of the possibility of the dreadful contamination, and warns us to provide accordingly.  " Mr. Hutchinson thinks it of the first importance to diffuse the knowledge that vaccination-syphilis is possible, widely amongst the profession. Until all medical men believe in it, and fear it, we shall still be very unsafe.  "Mr. Savory thought Messrs. Smith and Hutchinson had fairly established their case, and he had no doubt but that there were many cases which circumstances prevented others from making public. That fluids could communicate the mischief was shown by the influence of semen in inherited syphilis. In vaccination-syphilis we only went a step further. We now believe that con- stitutional syphilis might be directly propagated from one to another, especially through the medium of the foetus. These facts were quite as strong as those relating to vaccino-syphilis.  " Mr. Hutchinson said his cases were, clearly due to vaccination, and the long period the disease might y be latent without sign was very alarming as far as  vaccination tion went. They must investigate this point. It had been said that if a child reached four months without sign it would escape ; but this was not so. In many, syphilis really lies latent till puberty. . . . Are such cases extremely rare? He feared not; all these occurred to him in the way of ordinary practice. His second series were by a public vaccinator, who had no idea of their   Authorities on Vaccine Syphilis.   2T   existence. Other surgeons were, he feared, in the same condition, and thus a false feeling of security pre- vailed."  Mr. Brudenell Carter- "I think that syphilitic contamination by vaccine lymph is by no means an unusual occurrence, and that it is very generally over- looked because people do not know either when or where to look for it. I think that a large proportion of the cases of apparently inherited syphilis are in reality vaccinal ; and that the syphilis in these cases does not show itself until the age of from eight to ten years, by which time the relation between cause and effect is apt to be lost sight of. . . .  " He believed, or, as he might perhaps more properly say, he suspected, that lymph taken from a vaccinifer who was the subject even of latent inherited syphilis, would reproduce in the vaccinated the constitutional state of the child from which it was taken ; that is, that it would communicate a form of syphilis precisely resembling the inherited, and only to be distinguished from it by the absence of the inheritance. Where he saw notched teeth of typical kind, and keratitis, and when in these cases there was not a trace of the same conditions in the next younger child of the family, nor any evidence, direct or conjectural, of syphilis in the parents, he thought we must look elsewhere than to inheritance for the source of the disease ; and a case of this kind which he had seen had presented so distinct a history of failing health from the date of vaccination that he had been led to suspect whether this had not been the channel through which the poison found entrance into the system. Since then he had seen several such cases. ... If he found a succession of cases, apparently of inherited syphilis, with no evidence of inheritance, and in which it could be shown that the patients had been vaccinated from children who had really inherited syphilis, then he should think it proved that the late form of syphilis which Mr.   22   Vacrifiation Tracts.   Hutchinson had taught us to call inherited might also be acquired in this particular manner."  Dr. Bakewett. - "The general opinion among medical men in Trinidad is, that it is quite possible that leprosy may be propagated in this manner. It is curious, too, that in those islands where vaccination is not much used there is very much less leprosy in proportion than here. The prejudice against vaccination here is very strong, and solely, I believe, on this account."   Fatality of Hospital smallpox cases before and since the adoption of Vaccination.   Date.  Authority.  Cases.  Vac- cinated.  Deaths.  Percent- age of Deaths.  1723  Jurin  17,151  None  2,848  16.6  1779  Rees' Cyclopaedia  400  Do.  72  18.O  1700-63  Duvillard  24>594  Do.  4,635  18.85  1836-51  1871-72  1875-76  1870-72  1876  1877  M arson  Metropolitan Hospitals Liverpool Glasgow Hospital Metropolitan Hospitals Do., Oct. 21st, 1876, to Sept. 21st, 1877  5,652 14,808 180  958 1,470  7,333  3,094 11,174  133 669  1,129 2,763  33 149  338 1,329  19.97 18.66 18.33  15-4 23.0  18. 1   Average hospital mortality in the pre-vaccination period, 17-64 per cent.  Average hospital mortality since the adoption of vacci- nation, 18-83.   Dr. Pcarce. - "The fact being fully established that syphilis is sometimes conveyed in vaccine lymph, reference to the table will show the strong probability of the frequent occurrence of this calamity.   The Weakness of Vaccinated Nations. 23   " It will be seen that there died of syphilis in the   Periods of five years.  Under one year old.  Of all ages.  1st period, 1860-4 2nd period, 1870-4 .  4S°4 7009  6425 9271   " In the first period, therefore, nearly two-thirds of the whole number were under one year old (the year of vaccination), while in the second period, when the number of vaccinations had greatly increased, no less than seven- ninths of the whole number of deaths were of infants not a year old."   Note to page 12.  VACCINATION IMPAIRS THE DEFENSIVE STRENGTH OF NATIONS.  In his recent work on Education in Sweden, " the best vaccinated country in Europe," Rektor P. A. Siljestrom has the following remarks : -  " Here, in passing, we point attention to the lamentable fact that, owing to physical weakness or bodily defect, nearly one-fourth of the youth of Sweden, at the age of twenty-one, is incapacitated from taking part in the defence of the kingdom.''  To this statement, derived from official statistics, he appends the following note : -  " Perhaps the explanation of this circumstance is not far to seek. When the testimony of witnesses like Ricord, Hutchinson, and others, has established beyond all contradiction that syphilis can be propagated by vaccination, and this without any possibility of control, it   2 4   Vaccination Tracts.   is easy to see how the most disastrous consequences may crop up in a country where compulsory vaccination pre- vails. This result of modern investigation appears to have escaped the notice of our medical authorities ; but, taken together with the conclusion to which the latest statistics have brought us,- statistics medical and official, - that the tables of mortality relied upon as a support to the doctrine of vaccination are completely worthless and irrelevant, it undeniably gives rise to serious considera- tion. In very deed the problem touches most intimately the entire woe and weal of the rising generation ; and perhaps the question of getting rid of vaccination is for the present the most weighty question of refonn within the province of the rearing of children. The evil that has been done during the last seventy-six years cannot be undone, but we may well bethink ourselves what we can do, and ought to do, for the future of the race" (Om utsigterna och hindren for en hbgre folkbildning, p. 2, Stockholm, 1877 - The Higher Education of the People, its Hopes and Hindrances).  Rektor P. A! Siljestrom, the writer of these words, is the highest living authority on the subject of Swedish Education. His work On the Educational Institutions of America was the turning point in the Swedish system, and covered Sweden with schools which are the admiration of other countries. His voice is therefore not a light one on any public question ; and though not medical, yet in this respect it is on a level with the voices of our Houses of Parliament. He is not an expert, but a judge over experts. In his work on The Vaccination Question, he has the following : - " If only one single well-established case of syphilis has been communicated, this is a sufficient reason for the abolition of compulsory vaccination."   Price 1 ^d. each; is. 2d. per dozen ; 9s. per hundred.   VACCINATION TRACTS   COMPULSORY VACCINATION A DESECRA- TION OF LAW, A BREAKER OF HOMES AND PERSECUTOR OF THE POOR   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1878  [No. 11.]   PREFACE.  THE responsibility of judges and magistrates to God and man is above their responsibility to the law of the land, which may. be corrupt and wicked, or false to the best interests of" mankind, as we know from many instances.  It was a base saying of a tyrant heart that "the people have nothing to do with the laws but to obey them." It is a far more base assertion that judges and magistrates have nothing to do with the laws but to sit firm and admin- ister them. If they were machines of steel wound up and set in execution by Parliament that assertion would hold of them; but it is false to them if they have human hearts, and are whole human beings.  The function of a judge is to hear the case before him completely, and to judge justly and righteously upon the whole evidence. If he did this, Parliament would have to take him into account in framing laws, and to ask itself perpetually whether the Just Man on the bench would administer such and such a law or no. Such just judges, by their righteousness and humanity, would preside, though invisible to Parliament, over its rough thoughts and passions. And when cases arose in which such judges could not administer the law without hurting their consciences, they would ascend from the bench and become simple citizens, the greatest reformers of all; in their retirement the centre of senates, the beginning in law of a new State from a new Church.  Judges who do less than this are bribed by their offices; they are venal and corrupt judges; and the repeated say- ing that they have nothing to do with the laws but to administer them, means that they do not hear their causes, but are the machines of the corruption of the world : its violence clothed in ermine.   V   COMPULSORY VACCINATION A DESECRA- TION OF LAW, A BREAKER OF HOMES AND PERSECUTOR OF THE POOR.  - ? -  THE FOUNDATIONS AND EFFECTS OF THE COMPULSORY VACCINATION LAW.  Vaccination introduces matter from diseased anicials and children into the blood of healthy children.  Vaccination is mainly derived from smallpox inocu- lation of calves and heifers ; it is smallpoxing. Jennerian vaccination has virtually ceased.  Vaccination, enforced by law, breaks the law forbidding inoculation.  Vaccination intensifies smallpox epidemics ; and the more it prevails the greater is the epidemic mortality.  Vaccination propagates syphilis, consumption, and hereditary diseases, which appear years afterwards at their appointed times. It produces immediately ery- sipelas, and aggravates the disorders of childhood; de- stroying the germs of the teeth during teething. It is especially productive of mesenteric and glandular diseases, and lies at the foundation of the shameful mortality of whooping-cough.  Vaccination has no power of preventing smallpox ; for nearly every one who takes smallpox has been vaccinated.  Vaccination does not mitigate smallpox; for it does not diminish the smallpox death-rate.  Vaccination rests on perverted statistics ; and directly influences medical authorities to frame such perversions.   4   Vaccinatioii Tracts.   Compulsory vaccination stamps out parental feelings and consciences, and Christian faith and courage, and makes weak parents accomplices in its own wickedness, rotting the social state in its very heart.  Compulsory vaccination is not law, excepting in the sense in which murderous tyranny is law. It is not medicine, save in so far as consummate blood-poisoning is medicine.  Resistance to it is a law of nature in un perverted men and women, and a dictate of the Law of Christ. Brethren, resist even to martyrdom, and He, the Lord, will defend the right.   MODERN INTOLERANCE.  The Vaccination Laws.  {Extract from " Pike's History of Crime." Vol. 2, pp. 589-591.)  " It has been pointed out again and again in the course of this history, that there is in human affairs some tend- ency towards atavism, that all civilization is apt to revert to the primitive barbarism. We do not now burn heretics, but there may fairly be asked the question, whether we do not in the name of public health, civiliza- tion, or public policy, enforce laws which savour a little of mediaeval and theological intolerance. We force parents to vaccinate their children though the parents truly and conscientiously hold the belief that  vaccination tion is injurious. We convict certain 'Peculiar People' of manslaughter, because they prefer the teachings of Scripture to the doctrines of modern medical science in the treatment of disease. We justify ourselves on the ground that all this is done for the benefit not only of the public in general, but also of the particular persons on whose behalf the laws have been set at defiance.   Blood Pollution to keep people well.   5   But this is an argument by no means unknown to earlier ages, though ' public policy ' may be a phrase of modern invention. Our forefathers thought they burned heretics for the good of the commonwealth, and for the good of the heretics themselves, just as we think we vaccinate infants, send 'Peculiar People' to prison, and fine widows who permit their children to be absent from school, for the good of the children and of the State in general. We believe we know what is expedient better than a small minority who look upon the same matters from a different point of view. Our belief may be, and probably is, correct ; but surely it is intolerant to force that belief upon other persons unless we can show that their opposition to it is directly injurious to some indi- vidual, or to the State in the sense in which theft and murder are injurious.  "The opponents of vaccination, and the enthusiasts who refuse to call in medical aid, stand to the medical profession in nearly the same relation in which the heretics of old stood to the Church. In one respect, indeed, the opponents of vaccination hold a stronger position. The reason for enforcing vaccination is that it entirely prevents infection from smallpox, or greatly mitigates where it does not prevent The unvaccinated therefore can do but little injury to those who are vaccinated, and are dangerous only to themselves and to one another. The heretic, on the contrary, was supposed to be stricken with a religious leprosy, which was most infectious, and which he could communicate to his off- spring, and to every one who came within reach of him. The interests of the public therefore do not seem to be so deeply concerned in the case of the unvaccinated as in the case of the unorthodox. The State, however, it may be said, ought to interfere for the protection of the young who are unable to protect themselves, or to judge for themselves. This doctrine appears at first sight to be in accordance with humanity and sound sense, and is applicable alike to medical and to edu-   6   Vaccination Tracts.   cational theories. But, as already shown, when the policy of State interference begins by enforcing State education, or by other dictation in domestic affairs, it must go further in the direction of Communism, or be inconsistent. When previously adopted in England, it has usually been inconsistent with itself, and has simply been one form of intolerance."   COMPULSORY VACCINATION. Professor F. W. Newman.  "To enact a medical creed, or command a medical process, is usurpation - not legitimate legislation, even viewed from the scientific side.  " But next, it is a horrible atrocity viewed on the side of freedom. What can be more shocking than when vac- cination has killed one child of a family to compel the parents to yield up a second child to the same treatment? What is it but murder? Nor have our representatives any more the right to forbid our learning from our neigh- bour's calamity. Why must I or you, who know cases in which vaccination (so-called) has either killed or crippled children, or has left general weakness, - why must we surrender even one child to the risk ? "  Richard Griffith.  " Surely it cannot be intended to turn intelligent and respectable citizens - -men who take the trouble to think for themselves, instead of blindly swallowing senseless medical superstitions - into law-breakers from conscien- tious convictions. Let any one who can bring himself to do so believe in vaccination, and if it has the charm ascribed to it, it will protect the believer from smallpox, who cannot therefore be damnified by the non-vaccination of others, of which he has accordingly no right to complain. It should not be forgotten how INOCULATION, now   Shocking Medical Usurpation. 1   made penal, was formerly as loudly lauded by the medical profession as a panacea for smallpox as vaccination is to- day, showing how much reliance is to be placed on the shifting quicksands of passing medical dogmas. the plague has long since succumbed to sanitary influences in this country without the interference of any process like vaccination, but had vaccination beenin vogue as a panacea for it concurrently with such disappearance from amongst us, how triumphantly would it have been pointed to as a proof of the success of vaccination, a boast which no statis- tics could disprove, common sense alone refusing to con- nect the concomitance in the relation of cause and effect. How any reflecting mind can believe in the efficacy of vac- cination is to my mind inexplicable. It is an operation which can do nothing but injure health and increase liability to disease, which amply accounts for the present alarming rate of infant mortality" (see " Vaccination Tract" No. 9).  THE TYRANNY OF THE COMPULSORY VACCINATION LAWS.  SPECIMENS OF THEIR OPERATION.  The cases here given are selected from the records of hundreds of a similar kind, to publish the whole of which would require volumes. Scarcely a day passes in which parents are not summoned for refusing to comply with the provisions of the Vaccination Acts; and although the Act states that a "reasonable excuse" maybe pleaded as a cause for non-compliance, yet the fact of many of those summoned having lost children by death, or had others injured, diseased, or crippled for life, is passed unheeded by the magistracy, who, in defiance of the statute, will not accept the horrible experience of parents as a " reasonable excuse."  Some idea of the extent of these prosecutions, and of the widespread hatred to vaccination which prevails,   8   Vaccination Tracts.   may be gleaned from the perusal of a Blue Book return of prosecutions under the Vaccination Act, 1867, from 1st January 1870 to 1st January 1875, presented to the House of Commons, August 1875. This "return," grossly inaccurate and incomplete as it is, fills ninety-three folio pages, and records over 4000 cases of prosecution. Since then there is every reason to believe that, owing to the increased opposition to the law, such prosecutions have been of much more frequent occurrence. And as it is owing to the action of the Lords Spiritual and Bishops Political in rejecting the amendment proposed by the House of Commons, that the repeated prosecution of parents for the same child is possible, so we find that the first and foremost as prosecutors of those who from conscientious motives decline to comply with the Vacci- nation Acts, and the most uncharitable, unchristian, and severe in their judgments, are the clerical magistrates who combine in an unholy alliance the functions of minis- ters of the Law of the land and the Gospel of Christ.  We now proceed to give a few examples of the cruelty, oppression, and intolerance, practised in the name of Law upon citizens of this "free" country: -  James Lawton, of North Whittington, Chesterfield, has had ten summonses, and been convicted seven times in respect of one child, and three summonses and convic- tions in respect of another child. In the earlier cases Lawton paid the fines, but being no longer able to do so, his goods were distrained, and in one case of distraint they took away a child's chair, a nursing-chair, two common chairs, and a clock. The effects on which dis- traint could be levied became exhausted, and he was afterwards sent a prisoner to Derby Gaol. These events happened in 1870-71, since which date Lawton has been repeatedly summoned and fined. The harrass and worry of these prosecutions have destroyed the health of himself and wife, and made a wreck of his domestic happiness.   Vaccination Martyrs- Charles Washington Nye. 9  Charles Washington Nye, of Chatham, writes:- "I was sent to Canterbury Gaol for fourteen days for not having one of my children vaccinated. I had to assist the criminal prisoners in the prison work. At the end of my sentence I was turned adrift to go to Chatham, twenty-eight miles, in the best way I could without a farthing in my pocket ; since then I have been favoured with three summonses. I treated the Vaccination Act with the utmost contempt, and have good cause to do so. In 1866 I had two of my children vaccinated, and they never had a month's health after; they are now in their graves." Nye has been several times imprisoned since, and is now (Dec. 1877) undergoing a month's im- prisonment. The following is his statement of his prison experience: -  "On the 19th October 1869 I was sentenced to fourteen days' imprisonment for refusing to have my child, Jemima Mary, vaccinated ; but managed to elude the police until the 9th December, when I was appre- hended by Police-constable Morgan. I was lodged in the police-station for the night, and next morning took by train to the county gaol at Canterbury, where I found the officials tolerably civil. After being weighed and measured, and having a description of my eyes, hair, and general appearance entered in a book, I was taken to the doctor, who examined my arm for the vaccination mark. I was then supplied with the prison dress, and placed in the cell that I was to occupy during my stay in the prison. My employment was oakum-picking, but I had no regular task. I had a hammock to sleep in, but no bed. The diet for the first nine days of my sentence was six ounces of bread for breakfast and supper, and four ounces of bread, with six ounces of Indian-meal pudding,for dinner. I was visited several times by the chaplain, who I found to be a very nice man : he had the smallpox himself after being vaccinated. He believes that vac- cination lightens it, but that a great deal of mischief is done by careless vaccination.  B   lO   Vaccination Tracts.   "On the ist March 1870 I was again sentenced to fourteen days' imprisonment for the same offence, but from some cause that I am not aware of I was not sent to gaol.  "On the 19th May 1870 I was apprehended on the third conviction for the same offence (sentence twenty- one days). By this time I had gained the confidence of the police, who allowed me to do pretty much as I liked. I went with the man that arrested me to hire the cab that was to convey me to the county prison at Maidstone. On arriving at the police-station, where I had to wait about an hour for the conveyance, I received many ex- pressions of sympathy, and was not locked up. When I got to the gaol the aspect of affairs was quite changed, and I experienced nothing but cruelty. I was employed barrow-running at a foundation that was being dug for a new cookhouse. I worked at that until my hands got so bad that the handles of every barrow I wheeled were stained with my blood, and I refused to work at it any longer. I was then put on task at oakum-picking, and after I had been supplied with my supper gruel a warder came and took it away, remarking that as I was too lazy to work I was not entitled to it.  " I was next apprehended for the same offence on the 28th July 1870, and took to the county gaol at Canter- bury for thirty-one days, and treated the same as on my first conviction. I was next apprehended on the 16th December 1870 for the same offence, and took to Canterbury gaol for thirty-one days. Treatment the same as on my first conviction, with the exception that I was kept in a small cell in one of the passages a day and a night waiting for the doctor, who wanted to vaccinate me, but I refused to be done. Some bed-clothes were given me, but as they were evidently damp, I spread them on the floor to stop the sound, and walked about all night. I was apprehended on my sixth conviction for the same offence, but for another child, on the at h January 1872, and sent to the county gaol at Maidstone   Charles Washington Nye.   1 1   for thirty-one days' hard labour. The constable that arrested me came without his warrant, as his instructing- sergeant told him I would not object to go without it. I was kept in the police-station all night, and treated with the usual civility by the police until next morning, when I was told by the man that was to take me to the prison that I must have the 'cuffs' on, as he had orders to handcuff all prisoners for the future. I made no re- sistance, but in putting them on he pinched my flesh in the lock, and had to use some force to get it open again ; my wrist bled a good deal, and I have the scar now. On being admitted to the prison I was ordered to strip, and the warder took my description, while a prisoner that was acting as his assistant commenced spoiling my clothes by stamping them into a bag about half big enough to hold them. I was then told to write my name in a book, but could hardly do it as I shook so with cold. I then had a warm bath, which was very nice. After getting the prison clothes on, and my hair cut, I was took to the doctor, and had to undergo an indecent examination, and was then put on the tread- wheel. My diet was six ounces of bread for breakfast and supper, and six ounces of bread, with six ounces of Indian-meal pudding, for dinner. After seven days I had a pint of gruel extra for breakfast and supper. My bed-clothes consisted of three blankets, a rug, and a sack they call a pair of sheets, but I had neither bed nor pillow. On the Thursday before the expiration of my sentence, Warder Thompson took the card off my gate, which meant that I should be reported in the morning ; but as I knew No. 9 and No. 10 were to be reported for talking in church, and from No. 9 telling the officer in charge of our ward that Mr. Thompson had took my card instead of No. io's, I thought the matter would be set right in the morning, but to my surprise I was not allowed to speak, and was sentenced to two days' punish- ment. In the punishment cell I had two halfpenny rolls at twelve o'clock, and at supper time a pail of water   ] 2   Vaccination Tracts.   was brought to the door, and I was asked if I wanted any.  "On the 28th October 1873 I was sentenced to thirty- one days' imprisonment, without hard labour, for refusing to have my child vaccinated. On the same evening I was apprehended and taken to the county gaol at Maid- stone, where I had to undergo the usual formalities, and was put to what they call ' trench work.' In the north division of the prison there is a garden, which had been formed by covering an old drill yard with a few inches of mould. Nothing would grow in it, and I, with others, were employed to trench it all over to a depth of five or six feet. In some places it was solid concrete, and the pickaxe and shovel not being used in my line of business, my hands very soon began to show unmistakable signs of severe punishment. Besides the digging I had to assist my fellow 'criminals' to remove the stones we dug out away in trucks, and bring truck-loads of mould back to fill in with. One day I found something in the mould that looked like an onion, but I could not satisfy myself that it was not a flower root. I hid it in the leg of my sock for two or three days, when I got so hungry that I was obliged to eat it, and chance what it was.  " Charles W. Nye."  This is but a specimen of the cruelty, misery, and oppression, wrought under the sanction of these unhal- lowed and insane laws. It is monstrous to suppose that Parliament ever intended that good parents and law-abid- ing citizens should be thus treated as rogues, vagabonds, and felons - indeed, we know that it was the wish of the House of Commons that only one fine should be imposed in respect of the same child, but this proposal was nega- tived in the House of Lords by a majority of one, in a house of seventeen members only, and that one a bishop !   Vaccination Wolves in Sanitary Sheep's Clothing. 13   Statement of Mary Ann Witmore.  " 1 Bond Street, Grays, Essex, March 21, 1873.  " Dear Sir,- Having received your letter, dated March 17th, I write to say that we are still opposed to what you justly term the infamous, and, I may add, cruel law of compulsory vaccination. My husband is a sober, honest, and industrious man, an agricultural labourer, likewise an unsalaried Baptist minister. We have resided at Grays for nineteen years. We have had nine children in all, but we have not been favoured to bring up more than two - which, I need not say, we think much of ; - our eldest is a son in his fifteenth year, and I am happy to say is beyond the power of the Vaccination Law. The youngest is a healthy girl ; she will be three years in July next. The vaccination officer has caused us much trouble. We have had six summonses - three last year and three this The first three or four summonses broke down ; the last two obtained convictions; one was in November last. My husband had been at home ill for two weeks before it came, and therefore did not attend at the sessions-room on bench day, Nov. 1st, and was fined 2s. and 8s. 6d. costs, and paid it. In a fort- night's time the officer came again to know if we should have the child vaccinated. My husband was still at home suffering much pain in his head and limbs, and had no conference with him whatever. The officer, however, took out another summons, and it was served upon my husband; so we had only one clear day's notice. As he was something better (though not well) he appeared before the bench at Orsett, Dec. 3rd, and stated his objections. He, however, was again fined 20s., and costs 8s. 6d. This time we were not prepared or felt the disposition to pay it, as it seemed such a piece of persecution. As the money was not paid they issued a distress warrant for 30s. This was a very painful part.   14   Vacci?iation Tracts.   Now the officer can break up our little home, or take a good and faithful husband, a kind and loving father, and shut him up in a cell and treat him worse than 'they would a murderer ; keep him on a piece of black bread and cold water. My husband was not able to serve his time; he took the ague by some means or other, and it brought on such a state of prostration that after staying nine or ten days we had to pay £i, ns. 6d. to release him for the last three days, and he has scarcely recovered his imprisonment now. He was taken on the 14th of February and stayed until the 24th. Our means of resistance are as near as possible exhausted. There are many around us who say they do not believe in  vaccination tion, yet they have not the moral courage to stand out against it.  " I am, dear sir, yours respectfully,  "Mary Ann Witmore."  The Rev. H. J. Allen, a Primitive Methodist minister, writes : - " I had to appear before the bench of St. Neot's several times ; I refused to pay, and was committed to prison for fourteen days, but having paid the fine of ^5 I was liberated. In less than a month I had notice again, but refused to comply. The case was tried again, and they fined me, in spite of Dr. Collins's certificate of the unfitness of the children for vaccination, £1 for each child including costs. My solicitor's bill, with other expenses incurred in defending my children against this abominable and wicked law, which I will resist unto death, amounts to nearly ^"50."  Elizabeth Cooper, having paid nearly jQa, in fines and costs, was again summoned before the Stratford Magis- trates, and sent with her infant, nine months old, to Ilford Gaol for fourteen days on Dec. 10, 1874. Elizabeth Cooper had complied with the law at the time she was sentenced in her absence, and without evidence, to   Vaccination Wolves in Sanitary Sheep s Clothing. 15  fourteen days' imprisonment. A few days after, an application was made to the magistrates for her release, the facts laid before them, including the medical certifi- cate of vaccination, but no redress could be obtained, so that an innocent woman, and an infant of tender age suffering from a cold on the chest, were doomed by an unjust and unfeeling judge to complete the term of imprisonment illegally imposed on her.  A poor man at Colchester was committed to gaol for two months with hard labour.   A CRUEL CASE.  IMPRISONMENT FOR REFUSING TO TAKE A CHILD TO BE INSPECTED BY THE PUBLIC VACCINATOR.  "The following is from the Clcrkenwell News of June 1 o, 1 8 7 1. It is one of the most cruel and oppressive instances of the operation of the Compulsory Vaccination Act I have ever read of. No comments of mine are required ; but as I could scarcely believe the published report to be true, I visited the house of Jones, at Hornsey, this morning, and found that he had indeed been sent to prison. They were in great poverty, and the husband had been ill for some time ; when at work he only earned about 25s. a week. I saw the youngest child, which had recently been vaccinated. It was a poor, delicate, weakly child; and I think the medical man who. for the sake of a small fee would vaccinate such a fragile specimen of humanity ought to be held up to public execration and contempt. It is really a sad case. The magistrate must be devoid of all feelings of humanity to inflict the maximum fine in such a case.  "Wm. Young.  8 Neeld Terrace, Harrow Road, W."   i6   Vaccination Tracts.   '"Thomas Jones, of I York Terrace, Queen's Road, Hornsey Road, was summoned before Mr. Barker, of the Clerkenwell Police Court' to show cause why his children, John and Richard Jones, had not been taken to the public vaccinator of the district in which the children are resident to be inspected after having been vaccinated. The defendant, who appeared very ill, said that he was laid up at the time at which the notices were served on him. The parish doctor then told him that there was no occasion to take the children to be inspected, as there was smallpox in the house at the time ; and one of the children who was vaccinated at the same time as his (defendant's) children had died of the smallpox, and the doctor and himself were afraid that if matter was removed from his children it would be the means of spreading smallpox. It was solely by the advice of the doctor he did not send his children to be inspected. Mr. Broome, the prosecutor, said the defendant had had four notices - two from the Registrar of Births, and two from himself. The defendant repeated that he was ill when the notices were served ; and even if he had not been, the parish doctor had told him that it was not safe (the smallpox being in the house) to take the children to the public vaccinator, as it would be the means of spreading the disease. Mr. Barker fined the defendant the full penalty of twenty shillings on each summons, or in default fourteen days' imprisonment in the House of Correction. The defendant, who said that he had not a farthing, having been ill for weeks, was removed in the police van, at the same time saying that he and his family were often without food'" (" The Anti- Vaccinator," July 1871).   CASE OF RELENTLESS AND VINDICTIVE PERSECUTION BY THE POOR LAW GUARDIANS OF WITHAM, ESSEX.  Mr. John Castle, manager of the co-operative stores, Coggleshall, having conscientious objections to  vaccination tion, which operation he believes to be not only useless, but positively dangerous, has refused to allow his child, Walter Goody Castle, eleven years of age, to be vacci- nated. For this attempt to preserve his child in that excellent state of health which it has pleased Provi- dence to bestow on it, the so-called guardians of the poor have repeatedly summoned him to the Police Court at Wit- ham, a distance of seven miles from his home and business.   Vaccination Wolves in Sanitary Sheep's Clothing. 17   and have succeeded in causing him to be robbed of the following sums, which have been imposed as fines and costs, in addition to the anxiety, loss of valuable time and business, caused by these proceedings : -  1S73. November 18.  1874. February 3.  24.  March 31. April 28. May 26. June 23. August 18. September 8. November 2. December 10.  1875. April 10. May 7. June 3. September 3.   Fine and Costs £2  \J  r\ \J  Costs  1  2  (J  Fine and Costs  3  0   Costs  0  1 0  (J  Fine and Costs  1  1 0  O  Costs  0  10  O  Fine and Costs  1  10  O  L,OSlS •  r\ W  10  O  Fine and Costs  I  ro  O  Costs  O  10  O  Fine and Costs  I  10  O  Costs  O  10  O  Fine and Costs  I  10  O  Fine and Costs  2  0  O  Fine and Costs  I  10  O  Total, .  &9  12  O   Mr. Castle has escaped further persecution in conse- quence of his children having attained the age of fourteen years, after which age no prosecutions can be attempted.  Mr. William Tarr, of Manchester, suffered fourteen days' imprisonment in the Manchester City Gaol. On his release he was met at the prison gates by his friends and members of his family ; and most affecting was the scene when his children clustered around him, exclaiming, "Oh ! father, don't leave us again !" There was much hand-pressing and congratulating as the happy party moved homewards. The barbarity of our penal code was forcibly realized by this simple exclamation of Mr. Tarr as he gazed upward : " I haven't seen the blessed sky for fourteen days."   1 8   Vaccination Tracts.   EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM GEORGE MONK.  " Reservoir Cottage, Selly Oak, near Birmingham, Sept. yd, 1874.  "Dear Sir, - I wish to ask your advice under the following circumstances: - I, George Monk, of Selly Oak, near Birmingham, have been battling against the Board of Guardians and Magistrates of King's Heath, in this town, for the last five years, and have been repeatedly summoned and fined for not having my three children vaccinated, or rather murdered ; and was sentenced to three months' imprisonment at the King's Heath Petty Sessions on August 15th, 1874. I was apprehended on a warrant, and conveyed straight away to Worcester Gaol, where I was at once put to hard labour, with brown bread and water for my food, and a board to lie on. Such was my treatment. I need only tell you that I couldn't eat what was put before me, so the following Sunday week I was allowed the privilege of writing home to ask my wife to come and fetch me out, which she did on the Tuesday, as I was nearly starved to death, not having had or seen a bit of meat since I left home. The only meal I had to eat while there was about six or eight ounces of potatoes lust before I came out. My bread was taken away every day almost the same as when brought in, scarcely touched. When I got outside the prison, and for some days after, I staggered like a drunken man. Now, sir, when I had only one child to shield I snapped my fingers at them, but now I have four I find it impossible, as I am but a poor man, earning under £1 a week, to keep on paying the fines ; and it cost my wife ,£4, 13s. last week to fetch me out of prison, which will take me twelve months to pay back. What am I to do? I have defended myself, single- handed, for five years, and find myself at last helpless. The Guardians know I am out, so they are going to settle   Vaccination Wolves in Sanitary Sheep s Clothing. 19   at their next meeting about my fourth child, as they are determined to persecute me still.  " Unless you can assist or advise me, I shall have to deliver my children up to the god of filth. - I am, yours truly, George Monk.  "To Mr. J. W. Proudman, 50 Elgin Road, St. Peter's Park, London, W."   " On the hearing of the above case at King's Heath, before Messrs. Lane and J. F. Swinburn, Monk asked what was to become of his poor dear children whilst he was away in prison. The Bench assured him that they would be taken care of by the parish. So we have the spectacle of a body of men elected to provide and care for the poor actually becoming their persecutors, sending the honest and hard-working father to prison, and his wife and children to the workhouse.  " So that a poor man, whose only crime is that he is poor and loves his child, and will not commit what he believes to be a great sin, namely, to allow his dear little babe to have his blood poisoned at its birth with filthy matter from a beast - a poor man, whose only crime is what I have just said, has his humble home broken up, himself degraded by being ranked with thieves and vicious persons, and shut up in a prison, and his wife and children removed to the Union - and this in free England - the land that we are in the habit of boasting is the land of the brave and the free !  " Mr. Gladstone years ago wrote a noble and stirring letter about Naples and its cruel persecutions, which letter may have helped much in shortening the days of the tyranny. Will not some enlightened Neapolitan, returning the compliment, now write an equally stirring article about England and its liberties - I mean its Compulsory Laws ?  " Rev. G. Cardew, M.A."   20   Vaccination Tracts   TREATMENT OF MR. F. KEEN WHEN IMPRI- SONED FOR NON-VACCINATION.  " Mr. Keen, of Walmer Road, Nottinghill, who had previously been sentenced several times, appeared at the Hammersmith Police Court on Dec. 15, 1876, in answer to five summonses in respect of his five un vaccinated children, all of whom had had the smallpox, and conse- quently were exempt from the provisions and penalties of the Vaccination Acts. But the father being one of those £ Peculiar People ' who have little faith in the orthodox and State licensed doctors, and less in their mode of treatment, treated his children himself on the botanic system, which he had studied and practised for many years ; and they all made good recoveries. On this account he was unable to get any regular doctor to certify that his children had had the smallpox. The magistrate disregarded the defence, and imposed a fine of 20s. and 2s. costs in each case, or ^5, 10s., or fourteen days' imprisonment. Mr. Keen, believing that he had been illegally and unjustly convicted, chose the latter. Having bid his children farewell, he was immediately marched off to the cells and locked up for four hours until the arrival of the prison van. An hour's ride brought him to the House of Correction. He had to give up everything he had with him, was then questioned, searched, and a ticket fastened on his left arm, and he was supplied with a piece of bread, a pint of skilly, and marched off to his cell for the night. Bed and bedding consisted of blanket, sheet, and quilt, with a piece of canvas fastened by four straps to the walls. Next morning he was stripped of all his own clothes on the bare stones, given a warm bath, dressed in a full suit of prison attire, and marched off to his cell, E 92. For dinner, bread and skilly as before. He was told to pick up a bundle of old rope lying on the floor, but refused to do so, and   Vaccination Wolves in Sanitary Sheep's Clothing. 2 1  standing with his arras folded, one of the warders said, ' One would think you were the governor.' Mr. Keen replied that he was as good a man as he or any one else, and as long as he was there the country should keep him. A warder said, ' Take it and go on.' He then went back to his cell and threw down the old rope, where it lay till Tuesday. He was threatened every day to be taken before the governor, when, by the advice of some one, he began to pick a little rope, which made the time pass away" more quickly; but having offended the warders, he was a marked man, and when he had finished his task he was brought before the justices three days in succession ; after which he had to appear before a full bench, when the officer was sworn. He was punished by being put on bread and water only, the 23rd, 24th, and Christmas Day, and kept in close con- finement all the time - not even allowed to go to Divine service. On the 26th he was marched, in turn with other prisoners, to see the chaplain, who inquired what he had been in early life. Keen replied that he had been a Sunday-school teacher thirteen years ; that during that time he had given numerous addresses, and with two others had collected ^6000 for the endowment of a church and schools. This had a great effect on the chaplain, who said he wished he had seen him before. You believe, said he, that vaccination is injurious. Keen conversed on the subject for a quarter of an hour. The chaplain said he could not enter into any argument as he had not studied the question, but that he had remarked that more people died of consumption than formerly. This, said Keen, is due to vaccination. On the 28th he was discharged.  "Wm. Young." 8 Neeld Terrace, Harrow Road, March \2lJ1, 1877.   22   Vaccination Tracts.   VACCINATION PROSECUTION,  On Friday, Nov. 24, 1876, at the Kent County Police Court, William Smallman, labourer, Orchard, Strood, was summoned for neglecting to have his child, Emma, vacci- nated within three months after birth, in accordance with the requirements of the Act of Parliament. Defendant's wife appeared with the authority of her husband. Mr. Jabez Whitehead, Vaccination Officer for the Medway District, produced the Vaccination Return for the sub- district of Rochester, where the child was born, and there was no entry of the child having been vaccinated.  William Caswell, Vaccination Officer for the North Aylesford District, stated that he had received no return of the successful vaccination of defendant's child, nor of a postponement, nor of the child's unfitness for vaccination.  The Magistrates' Clerk (Mr. G. H. Knight): Have you had your child vaccinated ?  Mrs. Smallman said that she had not had the child vaccinated, as her last child died through vaccination.  The Magistrates' Clerk said if that was true it was no answer to the case in law.  Mrs. Smallman produced the copy of the certificate of the death of her last child.   I hereby certify that I attended Charles Smallman, aged four months last birthday ; that I last saw him on February 25th, 1875 ; that he died on February 27th, at Rochester, and that the cause of his death was -   Mrs. Smallman said, at the time of my child's death my husband was out of work, and if it had not been for the   COPY OF CERTIFICATE.   Cause of Death : First, Vaccination. Second, Erysipelas,   Time from attack till death : One month 20 days.   J. D. Brown, Prof. Title, M.D. Address, Rochester, Date, March 2nd, 1875.   Vaccination Wolves in Sanitary Sheep's Clothing. 23  kindness of two lady friends and my neighbours, I should . have died too from want of food as well as rest. I sat up 1 nine days and ten nights, and the tenth day my child died.  The Magistrates' Clerk: Have you any witnesses to call?  Mr. Jabez Whitehead : No, sir.  The Chairman after passing remarks in favour of vaccination, fined defendant 5s. and 8s. costs; in default of sufficient distress, to be sent to prison for seven days. He (the Chairman) should advise him to have the child vaccinated or he would get into further trouble.  Defendent's wife remarked that she wished they would send her to gaol instead of her husband ; she would go as often as they liked to send her, rather than run the risk of having another child killed.  SOME SPECIMENS OF FINES AND COSTS PAID BY PARENTS FOR REFUSING TO HAVE THEIR CHILDREN VACCINATED.  Price John, Upper Gaolford, Ludlow.  (Mr. Price has been summoned forty-four times.) Pearse F., High St., Andover. Harvey W. K., do. do. Baskott H, Marton, near Rugby. Wood John, Whitewell, near Chesterfield.  (Escaped further prosecution by leaving the town.)  Eversden D., Melbourn, Royston. . (Being threatened with the loss of his beer license if he refused to comply with the law, he had his child vaccinated, from the effects of which it died.)  Beckerlegge Rev. O., Worksop. . . 12 9 6 (Escaped further prosecution by leaving the town.) Edwards J., Victoria Docks, London. . 5 14 6 (Complied with the law to avoid loss of situation and social ruin.) Pryor J. P., Melbourn, Royston. . . 9  Smith J., High St., Lewes. . . . 9 17 o (On one occasion, refusing to pay a fine and costs  of £ 2 > 4 s - od., a distress warrant was issued  and goods to the value of about £10 seized. ) Dewing W., Guisboro'. •. . . . 17 14 d Benson J., Westerdale, Yarm. . . . 1 1 1 1 o   ^36  2  6  26  5  0  15  15  0  7  18  6  1 1  16  0  2  l 9  0   o   24 Vaccination Tracts.  Abel Joseph, Faringdon, Berks. . . it 2 c I? A  (March 1876 to January 1878.) 3 Campion J., Kenilworth. . . . o 2 o (Escaped further persecution by leaving the town. )  Jackson Thomas, Everton Village, Liverpool. 18 k 6  (August 1876 to January 1878.) Scott B. V., 121 Kensington, Liverpool. . 16 6 6  _ (August 1876 to December 1877.) Pride H., Edge Lane, Liverpool. . . 18 17 6  (August 1876 to January 187S.)  Casse I., Liverpool. . . . . 696  (October 1876 to March 1877.) Thurlow W., Sudbury, Suffolk.  (Has been repeatedly summoned and fined, and  and on one occasion the authorities seized goods  of the value of ^14 and sold them by public  auction for about half their value to satisfy a  small claim.)  Luck P., Grocer, Eastbourne. . . . 870 (April to December 1877. Six of his children having been injured by vaccination he has resolved not to submit any more to the opera- tion.)  William Eeley, a poor man of unblemished character, of Evenley, near Brackley, has just served a term of one month's imprisonment in Northampton Gaol.   Parents and Guardians of little children, refuse  vaccination tion and re-vaccination at all costs. God in heaven and posterity on earth will bless you. Remember that if you submit to this accursed thing you never know what seed of rottenness you have sown in the blood of your offspring, to spring up in future years. Remember that you are chargeable at the bar of the Most High with having, through base and groundless fear for the present, sub- mitted your children to the risk of abominable diseases in after life. And also remember that you are Britons, and are weakening your country by being vaccination slaves. Remember, and Resist.   Price ijd. each; is. 2d. per dozen ; gs. per hundred.   VACCINATION TRACTS   HISTORICAL AND CRITICAL SUMMARY IN THREE PARTS   PART I.  The Imposture of the current Smallpox Lymph called Vaccine, and the nezv Imposture of Calf-Lymph. Also, the Chaos of Statute Laiv dealing with Vaccine Substance.   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1878  m. 12.]   WHAT IS VACCINATION?   "Jenner held that swine-pox, smallpox, cowpox, anl various other similar affections, are all only varieties of the same disease, and he inoculated with swine-pox his eldest son Edward, who died of consumption- as did also James Phipps, the first patient whom Jenner inoculated with cowpox. Jenner also largely used equine or horse pox, and 'supplied his friend Baron and others with it. Jenner and his friends also held that the virus of various animals was equally efficacious with cowpox in warding off smallpox. At Madrid, by order of the King of Spain, all the children in the foundling hospital were inoculated with goat-pock in the year 1804. - See Baron's Life of Jenner, pp. 130, 238, 241, 254, etc. etc. ; and also various passages in vol. ii."  The people at large, and probably a large part of the medical profession, are not aware of the sources from which vaccine lymph is derived. What is more strange, the Vaccination Acts, under the compulsion of which our homes lie, give no definition of what that vaccination is which we are compelled to undergo. The practical solution appears to be, that whatever a " legally-qualified practitioner" affirms to be vaccination, is vaccination. In this fundamental matter, Vaccination Law differs| from almost all other law, in that all statutes, either commanding something, or prohibiting something, on limiting something, state what that something is. Vaccination law makes no declaration of the kind.  Under penalty of fine, distraint, or imprisonment, we are bound to submit to be vaccinated. Let us know, then, what we are to be vaccinated with ; and be furnished in each case with a complete attestation that the legal lancet has that thing on its point.  Jenner's lancet had on it the matter of the original cowpock, derived as he thought from the horse-pock.   Smallpoxitlg the Cow is Vaccination.   3   which he regarded as identical in nature with grease in the horse; an acrid and poisonous fluid which pro- duced flesh-eating ulcers and erysipelas on the udder of the cow ; the mild spontaneous cowpock according to him being inefficient as a preventive of smallpox. He had also arm-to-arm vaccination from this original source. And he also used the  horsepox  direct for what he called the equinaiion of the human subject. He therefore practised three distinct things under the one name of Vaccination.  Jenner's successors have added to the number. In view of the exceeding difficulty of finding the Jennerian cow- pox, and propagating it now to the whole population, the cow has been inoculated with smallpox, and the resultant vesicles have been called vaccine. A theoretical name ; for varioline or smallpox matter would agree better with the source. Two more substances here enter the field, and claim to combine as vaccination - viz. the human smallpox, and the modification of it in the cow. To these we may add inoculated  horsepox . And last, calf- pox, either spontaneous, or produced we know not how, said' to be mild in the calf, and therefore presumably inefficient according to Jenner; but to produce some- times grave constitutional disturbance in the human being.  Now as law is a matter of definition, to the insertion jof which of these substances do the Vaccination Acts I compel us? Are we bound to submit, and ask no ques- tions, excepting whether the gentleman who insists upon :vaccinating us is "a legally-qualified practitioner," or inot ? If we are so bound to submit, the width of the tyranny is as measureless as its vagueness ; and there is hardly a beast-poison that may not lurk in the future itime in the capacious folds of the cloak of Diploma.  Surely this want of definition is an anomaly and dis- grace in British law, and cannot endure in the Statute- pook.  We have said that the cow has been smallpoxed to   4   Vaccination Tracts.   produce what is called vaccine. The public is little aware that this is the case, and requires to be instructed in order that it may be widely known what infants and also adults undergo from " legally-qualified practitioners;" from practitioners who are qualified to cause death with- out the law having any hold upon them. Be it observed here in passing, that if infants die of vaccination per- formed by such practitioners, the result is normal, and to be humbly accepted, for the public good, by the parents ; if they die under vaccination by a man who has no diploma, the result is manslaughter. The vacci- nation lymph, and often the vaccinifer infant, is beyond scientific scrutiny ; therefore science falls upon the ques- tion of diploma or no diploma.  To exhibit the subject of smallpoxing the cow we avail ourselves of the " Handbook of Vaccination," by Edward C. Seaton, M.D., Medical Officer to the Local Government Board. Thence, the public, which requires the educa- tion, will learn that the law forbidding inoculation has been evaded ; that the cow is inoculated with smallpox to produce vaccine ; that infants are inoculated with man-cow smallpox, and then from arm to arm with man- cow-man-smallpox ; and that the same vaccinators who call morbid serum "pure lymph," also denominate the product of the artificial smallpoxes just mentioned, " pure vaccine." The public will learn from the follow- ing that a great part of the matter now used for  vaccination tion is a river of artificial smallpox.  Dr. Seaton says, chap. iv. n. 26: "As early as 1801, Gassner of Giinsburg, by inoculating eleven cows with smallpox matter, produced on one of them vesicles from which ... to inoculate four children. . . . With lymph from them, seventeen other children were . . . infected. . . . Dr. Sonderland of Barmen managed ... to infect cows ... by enveloping them in blankets taken from the bed of a patient who had died of smallpox ; ... by hanging such blankets up around the head of the animal, so that it must breathe the effluvia. . . In a few days   Smallpoxing the Cow is Vaccination.   5   the cows manifested . . . cowpox ; and lymph . . . from them produced genuine vaccine vesicles in the human subject."  These filthy and cruel experiments were repeated, as Dr. Seaton shows, in India and all over Europe ; but un- successfully. Let the people note the kind of things the vaccinators have done, kindred to the deeds of the vivisectors.  Dr. Seaton continues : " In 1836, Dr. Thiele of Kasan, . . . by inoculation of variolous virus [smallpox poison], . . . succeeded in producing . . . the genuine vaccine dis- ease. From this he raised a stock of lymph for human vac- cinations, which . . . had gone through seventy-five trans- missions, and been employed in the vaccination of more than 3000 subjects. . . . Dr. Thiele on various occasions afterwards succeeded in producing cowpox in cows by variolous inoculation. Cows should be selected from four to six years old, which have recently calved. . . . [Query, Is the milk from these cows sold in the regular way of business?] Mr. Ceely of Aylesbury . . . suc- ceeded (in February 1839) in inducing vaccine vesicles in two sturks by inoculation with variolous lymph, and in thus establishing lymph-stocks which passed at once into extensive use, so that, in a few months, more than 2000 children had been vaccinated from them. ... In December 1840, Mr. Badcock ... at Brighton . . . succeeded in variolating [smallpoxing] a cow, and deriv- ing therefrom a stock of genuine vaccine lymph ; and he has from 1840 to the present time, by inoculation of cows with the lymph of human variola [smallpox], raised stocks of vaccine lymph for use on no fewer than thirty- seven separate occasions. The lymph thus obtained by him is now largely employed ; it has been supplied to many hundreds of practitioners, and very many thousands of children have been vaccinated with it. . . . These thirty-seven successes represent but seven per cent, [of Mr. Badcock's experiments :] to obtain them he had to perform between five and six hundred variolous inocula-   6   Vaccination Tracts.   tions. [Query, Were all these 500 beasts left or sold as if nothing had happened?] In 1852, Mr. Ceely's experi- ments were repeated in America by Dr. Adams of Wal- tham, and Dr. Putnam of Boston, who were able, it is said, in consequence, to furnish the city and neighbour- hood (of Boston) with all the vaccine matter used there since that period."  " 28. The phenomena of successful variolation of the cow, as described by M. Thiele, consist first in the development of ' tubercules ' under the skin; these, by the fifth day, resemble advancing vaccine vesicles. . . . [Of such a vesicle Ceely says :] From this vesicle it was possible ... to charge thirty-eight points, . . . which points were afterwards used to inoculate children. . . . The first attempt to inoculate the cow, ... by seven punctures and two setons, failed ; and at the end of a fortnight, more smallpox virus . . . was forced into eight punctures, 'which were deluged with it, the punctures being afterwards irritated with points deeply charged with the same, which were suffered to remain in the punctures. . . . The lymph generated by these ex- periments was employed on the human subject. . . . On some of the subjects in whom this lymph was used, eruptions of roseola and lichen were seen." " 29. Many tens of thousands of persons in England have been vaccinated by various hands with lymph thus gener- ated - variola-vaccine lymph, as it is called. Mr. Badcock alone has performed upwards of 20,000 vaccinations with it."  All authorities do not agree with Dr. Seaton and the experimenters just cited, that smallpox inoculation of cows produces "genuine vaccine lymph." On this sub- ject Dr. Seaton observes : " 30. Some recent experiments which have been made at Lyons are said to have shown that it is a delusion to suppose that the inoculation of cows with variola has ever produced cowpox ; for in fact it produces . . . real smallpox, and nothing else. . . . At the Veterinary School at Berlin, inoculation of the   Smattpoxing the Cow is Vaccination. 7   cow with variolous lymph was performed, and ' pustules,' it is said, were produced, which, when inoculated back on the human subject, were found to reproduce smallpox. . . . A similar result is said to have been obtained at Boston (U. S.) in i860. But the more recent experi- ments leading to the same conclusion, which were performed by M. Chauveau of Lyons, ... are stated in full detail in a most interesting memoir ; . . . and as these experiments satisfied a committee of the Acade'mie des Sciences that a distinct smallpox disease may be induced in the cow or horse by variolous inoculation, as cowpox is induced in them by vaccine inoculation, the smallpox virus in its transit through these animals being incapable of conversion into vaccine, they [the experiments] demand our most attentive consideration."  Dr. Seaton combats this opinion of the above com- mittee, but hypothetically, and does not disprove it. He adds: "The hundreds of practitioners who in England for nearly thirty years have been using Ceely's or Badcock's lymph, must learn with extreme surprise that all this time they have not been vaccinating, as they supposed, but actually . . . variolating their patients ! - that they have in fact been making their patients so many foci of variolous infection ! "  Dr. Seaton says : "31. It is quite out of the question that cowpox on the human subject should have been transformed into smallpox." Surely a remarkable un- questionableness, when smallpox put into a cow pro- duces cowpox, and when smallpox matter vaccinized becomes "genuine vaccine lymph."  So far Dr. Seaton. We conclude these authorities with Sir John Cordy Burrows, a surgeon, and a magis- trate at Brighton, who said, as reported in the Brighton Herald, Feb. 5, 1876, "that the public seemed scarcely to understand what vaccination meant : that the vac- cine lymph taken from a child was nothing more than what had originally passed from a smallpox patient through a cow. In 1856-58 he took an active part   8   Vaccination Tracts.   in the movement, and assisted in inoculating seventeen cows producing in three cases 'vaccine lymph,' and from these the world was supplied."  Dr. George Wyld indorses the conclusion of the French Academy. He says {Daily News, Feb 17 1877): "I find that many medical men are under the false impression . . . that all that we require to do is to inoculate the heifer with smallpox matter, and thus set a supply of vaccine lymph. This . . . might become productive of disastrous consequences. Smallpox inocu- lation of the heifer produces not vaccinia, but a modified smallpox capable of spreading smallpox amongst human beings by infection."  Enough has now been said, and said from the highest Government authority, to show what vaccination princi- pally is- that it is smallpox propagated from human beings, through cows, to human beings again. Also to indicate that there are other sources of it, so that of any specimen of lymph of disease, it is impossible for any testimony, or any analysis, to declare which disease it is It may be original horse-cowpox: it maybe smallpox- cow-smallpox. It may be spontaneous calf-pox or cow- pox, declared by Jenner to be totally unprotective. Or it may be pure  horsepox . All these are in circulation from arm to arm. Medical opinion as to their virtue and what they transmit, and what they become in transit, is bewildered. A compulsory law is founded upon this scientific swamp. The only firm ground in it the foothold, the stable quantity, is " the legally-qualified practitioner." The laws of vaccination-nature are un- known, the evidences defective, the good contestable, the evil certain; but of the legally-qualified practitioner as himself the pure lymph and the true vaccine, the sub- stance of substances here, there is no doubt whatever. Infant deaths do him no harm ¦ and nothing can dis- prove him, but his creator, Parliament.  If it were possible to frame a conclusive argument for a separation of Medicine from the State, for Medical   Smallpoxing the People is Vacci?iatiofi.   9   Freedom, and for a totally unlicensed Medicine, here is the strongest that can be found. This in passing; though the thought will not pass away till every tittle of it is accomplished on the Medical Age.   CALF-LYMPH.  The original sources of "the Government lymph- supply" are said in the Times, March 31, 1877, to be " less certain " than the immediate sources, from arm to arm. " The great amount is known to be derived from Jenner's original virus, which was furnished by a case of cowpox that occurred without known cause." This statement, if true, demonstrates the difficulty of multiply- ing the matter which Jenner himself believed in, but of which he appears to have possessed only one specimen for vaccinating the world. The presumption is therefore very great that nearly every child and adult now is vaccinated or revaccinated with cow-smallpox.  The vesicles and pustules produced by this are sup- posed to be single and simple poison of disease, that is to say, virus, and to be independent of the constitution and antecedents of persons; so that a vaccine vesicle can contain nothing but vaccine, and a smallpox pustule nothing but smallpox. This is according to a medical hypothesis, that the body has but one disease at a time. This is partially true ; but as the body may live seventy years, it may suffer the evolution of disease after disease from what was thought at first to be a single germ. Vaccination-time may pass away, and in fourteen years syphilis-time come, and then scrofula-time, and cancer- time, and madness-time, from the same organic human matter working in the constitution. And these diseases in the first vemon may combine as life proceeds ; nay, must combine if the affections of the body are in any analogy to other affections of human nature. All this   to   Vaccination Tracts.   has been denied by superficial and official medical men, and it is all coming into view as fact more plainly under the observation and teaching of more profound physicians, roused by the wide sense of suffering in the public. The statistics of the increase of cancer, scrofula, syphilis, and madness also attest it.  Medical fear and conscience are thus awakening, and the vaccinators are seeking some fresh lymph to which the epithet " pure " can be reattached. Thus Dr. Thomas Wilson, Officer of Health to the Alton Union, says in a recent number of the La?icet : ¦ " It is useless to deny that vaccination by human lymph involves danger of scrofulous, syphilitic, and erysipelatous inoculation. The difficulty of securing with absolute certitude subjects for furnishing vaccine lymph free from constitutional taint is simply insuperable, as few - rather I would say no sci- entific physiologist, no thoughtful medical practitioners of widespread experience, contest."  This statement is very different to that elicited by Mr. Simon in 1856, in his four questions "referred to all the medical societies of Europe, to all the principal foreign governments, and to 542 physicians of different countries, selected on account of their known eminence and experi- ence." " The second question was - ' Have you any reason to believe or suspect that vaccinated persons . . . become more susceptible of any other infective disease, or of phthisis, or that their health is in any other way dis- advantageous^ affected ? ' In reply to this not one maintained that any injury arose from vaccination properly administered. . . . The third question was - ' Have you any reason to believe or suspect that lymph from a true Jennerian vesicle has ever been a vehicle of syphilitic, scrofulous, or other constitutional infection to the vac- cinated person, or that unintentional inoculation with some other disease . . . has occurred in the hands of a duly-educated medical practitioner ? ' To this all but a very few answered in the negative." It is a pity that Mr Simon does not tell us how many did affirm the   The Simon-Fallacies of 542 Heads of the Faculty. 1 1   poisonous results of vaccination. Also that he posed the question on "a true Jennerian vesicle," because there is hardly such a thing at the present day, and he was providing a subterfuge for all who answered his question.  Now to-day all these answers, from institutions and the 542 eminent men, are set aside by the experience of Ricord, Hutchinson, Brudenell Carter, and others; and the record of them serves only to set men thinking on the fallibility of cliques and interested professional bodies j and of how self-interest gathered up into great power, puts out the eyes of humane science, and makes its mouth utter careless falsities which simple fathers and mothers and nurses see through, and avoid. Siljestrom's remark is confirmed by history, where he says : " If only one single well-established case of syphilis has been communicated, this is a sufficient reason for the abolition of compulsory vaccination. Because when it is known what extraordinary difficulties lie in the way of the full and certain confirmation of such a fact, there is reason to suspect that this one case may, in reality, represent hundreds of cases " (Tract VIII. Vaccinal Syphilis).  In view, then, of the now confessed mischiefs of vaccination, a party has arisen which proposes to give up the old vaccination altogether, to abandon cow-lymph, horse-lymph, and humanized lymph of all kinds, and also to leave off arm-to-arm vaccination, which Jenner, Simon, Seaton, and others asserted to humanize the virus; and to have recourse to vitulation, or vaccination direct from the calf alone : in short, to abandon Jennerian governmental vaccination. Thus Dr. Thomas Wilson of Alton, before quoted, remarks : " I confine myself to the assertion that vaccination by vaccine which has in no- stage had prior contact with a human subject is exempt from the danger confessedly involved in other vaccination ; to wit, of introducing a syphilitic scrofulous diathesis ; and is therefore, in an important sense, a great advance on the latter method." He here alludes to the adoption of " the Belgian system " as a modicum of indisputable improve-   1 2   Vaccination Tracts.   ment in the existing method. The "Belgian system" inoculates calves from a heifer which develops natural cow- pox (see Note i) ; then inoculates from calf to calf, and every child is bound to have virus direct from a calf. This is called calf-lymph, but it is not calf-lymph. It is the serum of a particular disease of the calf thrown out upon the skin. Calf-lymph is the natural fluid that circulates in the lymphatic vessels of the calf; a healthy thing, as remote from scabs as day from night. Be not deceived by allowing your mind to use wrong words.   DR. GEORGE WYLD AND THE NEW CALF CULTUS.  The most prominent apostle of Vaccination from the Calf is Dr. George Wyld, who is now engaged in pro- viding London with a supply of pure lymph, that is to say, pure virus, by inoculation from heifer to calf, and then from calf to calf. Pure virus translated is pure poison, i.e. of a certain disease. He proposes to "multiply" "spontaneous vaccination," by "passing it on through a series of calves, ad infinitum, if necessary." He says " that a Government which rendered vaccination compulsory, was in duty bound to supply a lymph with total freedom from syphilis." The calf is his hope and his resort. Dr. George Wyld is a disinterested man, and is making a kind, honest, and courageous attempt to benefit his fellow-creatures, and to save vaccination : by hanging " a calf's skin on its recreant limbs."  The first point is that he derives his lymph from the cowpox spontaneously arising in the heifer. He would go back to the natural cowpox. Here Jenner confronts him with a direct denial of the efficacy of his plan. This is an important point, and we beg the reader to read it several times. Jenner says : " Pustulous sores frequently ¦appear spontaneously on the nipples of the cows, and   The Calf "ad infinitum"   J3   instances have occurred, though very rarely, of the hands of the servants employed in milking being affected with sores in consequence, and even of their feeling an indis- position from absorption. These pustules are of a much milder nature than those which arise from that contagion which constitutes the true cowpox. They are always free from the bluish or livid tint so conspicuous in the pustules in that disease. No erysipelas attends them. . . . This disease is not to be considered as similar in any respect to that of which I am treating, as it is incapable of producing any specific effects on the human constitution. . . . It is of the greatest consequence to point it out here, lest the want of discrimination should occasion an idea of security from the infection of smallpox, which might prove delusive.'" This is Jenner verbatim, the italics being ours. Jenner is here prophetic, and Wyld fulfils him as Antijenner.  What has compulsory vaccination to go upon, if the whole basis of Jennerian vaccination is swept away, and Jenner's plainest definition of his protective process is flouted? Again the only residuum left is that old asbestos cinder, the "legally -qualified practitioner." He can still make two and two into five - for a time.  But supposing that the two million cases which have been vitulated in Belgium and America still force the " calf ad infinitum " upon our attention, the question is, What do they prove? First, such lymph "has never been known to produce any evils" (Wyld). That is just what Jenner said - that it does no harm, being " incap- able of producing any specific effects on the human constitu- tion'' Herein we have a counter-proof that Wyld is indeed advocating that which Jenner proclaimed to be useless. Secondly, the alleged immunity from  smallpox  in the two million awaits for its fulfilment the next epidemic. At present it is but an assertion, which we cannot from knowledge affirm or deny. It is very like Jenner's own word, that a person once vaccinated in his way never takes smallpox : a mistake, which Jenner him- self retracted in the sequel. It is on a level with the   Vaccination Tracts.   importance of the deposition of the 542 eminent and most eminent physicians who misled Mr. Simon about the relations of the venereal disease to vaccination. They were wrong, though they were 542 strong, and nobody at hand to gainsay them.  Granting, however, that calf-lymph is as protective as Dr. Wyld would have it to be, what security have we that the vaccinated population gets calf-lymph as the product of spontaneous heifer-pox? It is sold in tubes in Oxford Street, and Dr. Wyld is sponsor for it. Of his veracity and honest intention there is no doubt. Yet he is not at the fountain-head, and has to take the genuine- ness of the lymph on trust, for it can be verified by no analysis. The Medical Powers have already surreptiti- ously put human smallpox as the main factor into what they still call vaccination : what anti-vaccinator will trust them to supply pure lymph from the calf, when such lymph is confessedly so difficult to obtain that Dr. Warlomont, director of the Institut Vaccinal de VEtat of Brussels, writes, " Calf-vaccination is so difficult and anxious a business that I could not desire a better occupation for my dearest enemy " ? It is against com- mon policy to trust our tyrannical enemy, armed with the powers of the law against us, and sheltered by the law whatever he does to us, to supply a costly thing of the genuineness of which there is no proof but easily- accepted rumour. The calm doers of vaccination- murders cannot expect to be believed on this point by their victims, the an ti- vaccinators. So much for the un- provable genuineness of Dr. Wyld's first matter and substance, " pure calf-lymph " (see Note 2).  Next, if you had this substance, which involves calf ad infinitum (Wyld), it is liable to all the hereditary taints of the bovine species, just as humanized lymph carries the disease-heredities of humankind. The ox in history, and to-day, is a vast theatre of pestilences and diseases. It is " stamped out " every now and then in various parts of England. Cattle-plague, Rinderpest, and   The Calf " ad infinitum.   Steppe-murrain occur as words of terrible signification. Foot-and-mouth disease is not a pleasant thought in con- nection with " pure lymph." The cow is also subject to consumption or scrofula ; and having been considerably used for variolation, human diseases are already launched into its blood. In short, where it has not the deeper con- taminations of human races, the cow is not pure in any true sense. Dr. Wyld indeed explains that he takes his lymph from only healthy calves, but how can he guarantee the heredities of the animal whose poison he is about to place in a human infant's lymphatics ? Yet he must so guarantee; or fall before his own objections to human- lymph vaccination.  The Vaccination laws, if they are based upon Jenner- ian Vaccination, must be against Dr. Wyld, for Jenner describes Wyld's process as " incapable of producing specific effects on the human constitution," and as in- volving a " want of discrimination " which might " prove delusive" in regard to "security from the infection of smallpox."  The leading medical authorities are also against him.  Dr. George Gregory, Physician to the Vaccination and Smallpox Hospital, wrote thus in 1839: "For many years past it has constantly been urged upon the pro- fession to revert to the cow for supplies of lymph. The proposal is certainly specious, but the following arguments appear conclusive against its general adoption : It is by no means easy to find the true cowpox, and there must always be a doubt as to the purity and genuineness of the new stock, until the experiment of variolous inoculation has been subsequently made, which parents are very seldom disposed to allow. Further, the true vaccine lymph, as taken from the cow, is frequently very acrid, producing glandular swellings and local inflammation. It is clear from these facts that recurrence to the cow is not lightly to be recommended, nor adopted without great and multi- plied cautions."  Dr. Seaton, Chief Vaccination Inspector of the Local   i6   Vaccination Tracts.   Government Board, after visiting Paris, Brussels, Rotter- dam, and Amsterdam, in 1869, with a view of investigat- ing the subject, reported unfavourably of the practice, as being impracticable and uncertain (see Note 3).  Dr. Shorthouse, in the Croydon Chronicle of January 6th, 1877, thus denounces it: "Some crazy enthusiasts recommend that lymph be taken direct from the cow. They cannot surely have seen those frightful pictures of the disease so produced, which were published by Mr. Ceely of Aylesbury some thirty years ago. Mr. Ceely carried out numerous experiments at the instance of the Provincial Medical Association. Those experiments were carefully and minutely observed, and their results faithfully and graphically recorded. Those observations and experiments are illustrated by a great number of beautifully-executed plates, drawn from life. Some of the pictures are something frightful. There is one which shows the back of the hand and arm of a youth who got inoculated accidentally whilst milking a cow. There is another which depicts a corroding ulcer on the thumb of a man who got inoculated in the same manner. If these enthusiasts inspected the pictures, I think they would be induced to pause before they advocated the practice of inoculation direct from the cow."  What hope then is left for the "calf ad infinitum^ when there is not a single result alleged in its favour except the negative result of the terrible things that might or might not have happened without it (see Note 2) : when such lymph is unknowable, and you can never have any certainty whether you have it, or something else : when if you have it, it carries cattle diseases into your babies ; and when, according to the authority of authori- ties, the " immortal Jenner," it is inoperative for good ; and according to his orthodox successors, it is productive of violent evils which do not belong to "humanized" lymph.  Lastly, all the immunity from danger that Dr. Wyld claims for calf-lymph, has been claimed up to a very   The Infinite Calf in Difficulties.   i7   recent date for every other kind of vaccination. It is only by a kind of hydraulic pressure that the profession has come to allow the frightful danger of these processes. How can Dr. Wyld with such an antecedent come to the deeply-deceived public forcredence, for his new but similar plan ? If he could show results conclusive against diseases immediately following vitulation, what security does his experience offer against the propagation of long-time dis- eases from his disease-lymph? None. And we boldly affirm, that so long as Medicine has the power of the State, and of the official concealment which this carries with it, there can be no honest experience in any such question (see Note 4).   JENNER'S INCONSEQUENCE IN THE FOUNDATIONS OF VACCINATION.  A perusal of Jenner's treatise, "An Inquiry into the Causes and Effects of the Variola; Vaccina;," shows that he founded the system of vaccination on no experience with regard to natural smallpox. His one alleged fact, adopted from dairy servants, was, that those who had taken certain sores on the hand or arm from the horse or the cow, were less liable than others to take  smallpox . To this he added the experimental proof of inoculating such persons with smallpox virus ; and he declared that where the precedent cowpox had been perfect, these people resisted the inoculation. He reasoned from this, that if they did not take inoculated smallpox, they could not catch natural smallpox. And he went further, and boldly averred that those who had been so treated, were safe for life. His confidence was misplaced ; and his reasonings were founded upon the false assumption that inoculated smallpox is identical with natural smallpox. Whereas there is this difference between the two : inoculated smallpox may be taken 12 B   1 8   Vaccinatio7i Tracts.   when there is no smallpox in the air; but natural smallpox presupposes the latter condition in varying degrees. It is therefore unlikely that a process of disease forced upon the system when there is no tendency to take the disease, a violent process, should have analogy with disease caught when its epidemic influence is more or less strong, and when human bodies are waiting pre- disposed to receive it. "  Dr. Gregory says in his " Elements of the Theory and Practice of Medicine," 1839, p. 190: "Popular rumour . . . attributed to cowpox a certain degree of protecting power over smallpox, but it was only in a certain degree. Jenner took a different view, . . . and con- fidently announced the complete and permanent security afforded. It is . . . curious that Jenner should thus have acknowledged the full value of the popular opinion regard- ing the security afforded by cowpox, but should have rejected or treated lightly the qualifying clauses. Experi- ence has now shown that common observation was not less deservi?ig of attention in the one case than in the other. It is well worthy of remark that in Dr. Jenner's original essay no mention is made of any cases in which cowpox failed to afford protection in after-life ; nor should it be for- gotten that the confident announcement then made of the permanency of vaccine protection was founded ex- clusively upon cases of the casual disorder."  Here we see that popular opinion, clearly founded upon experience, was right, and that Jenner was wrong. Yet his mistake was a cunning one, for it made his pro- posal into a safe sanctuary against panic, which the popular truth on the subject would not have been ; it forced Parliament to give him the vast testimonial of ^30,000 for doing that which his own correct sources of knowledge, the dairy servants, declared he could not do : and the rush of the same panic, age-long, into the same false sanctuary, has enabled the successors of Jenner to drive the population, with the whips and pains of law, into perpetual compulsory vaccination : those successors   The Dairy Servants truer than Jenner. 19  being paid, at an ever-accumulating rate, for something they do not do, even as Jenner was similarly paid for a like service. This is the history of the power of vacci- nation : a complete record of the ever-widening power of delusion when united to panic; of its greediness and sensitiveness; and of the huge cyclone of evil practice and false dogma with which it sweeps through and ruins society at last.  As at the beginning Jenner crushed the truths of the poor which were adverse to his pretensions, so his successors, the vaccinators, deride and trample upon the sad truths of the poor man's home today The greatest medical bodies, and institutions of Europe, and its 542 most experienced and eminent physicians, instead of a single Jenner, now deride the poor anti-vaccinators, and trample them down in the iron shoes of a compulsory law.  Yet truth will not die ; and as the record of the dairy servants stands confronting Jenner beside the cradle of the imp Vaccination, so The National Anti-compulsory  vaccination  Reporter of Jan. 1, 1878, places before Jenner's successors a black-edged sheet of Vaccination murders, which are reported by the fathers and mothers and near relations of the victims, and confront Jenner's successors, land the full-grown monster which they keep and feed.  Speaking of such cases, one writer says : " Every (neighbourhood is full of them; they are concealed in itheir ghastly multitude only by the Egyptian darkness, [that is, the scientific darkness, of the established Medical Profession " (see Note 4).  " All this experience, the public half of the question, is ungathered, and Parliament has legislated compulsory vaccination without it. Yet it is the men and women of England, especially the poor, who are the depositors of all the real scientific information on the subject. The doctors know the microscopy of pustules and pockmarks ; the poor know the serpent whose trail is death in their homes. Why has Parliament, following Jenner, cast out   zo   Vaccination Tracts.   the science of the poor ? Why has it listened only to the venal science of the doctors ? " (Compulsory Vaccination, its Wickedness to the Poor, p. 28.)   DE-VACCINATION.  As a sign of the end we put it on record, that there is a medical proposition for neutralizing vaccination as soon as it is performed, Dr. John Morton having introduced a special antiseptic, literally, an anti-rot, for the purpose. He says he has "discovered, after years of close attention to the subject," the external exciting cause of cowpox in cows and heifers. His words are : " There is always on the camping-ground of cows which have recently calved, animal matter undergoing decomposition. About this flies congregate in myriads, and from time to time these pests, which have become little poisonous inoculators, settle on the udder and teats of the cow, which, from the thinness of the skin and the highly irritable and vascular state it is then in, is the most vulnerable part of the cow's body. Thus it is that the little red inflammatory spots are first produced ; and which afterwards become vesicles, etc. Hence its septic or putrid nature."  " About a year and a half ago, when on a visit in Fiji, the natives were bei?ig vaccinated by order of the Government, and, amongst the number, some women belonging to a chief who did not like being vaccinated . . . and five or six came to me ; three ... an hour or two after the operation. I at once applied an antiseptic to the parts vaccinated, with the happy result of destroying the virus. The other women ... the following morning, had it applied . . . with a like result."  This shows that the medical mind is on the alert, recognising mischief, and endeavouring to meet it. One difficulty is, that Dr. Morton's process will not satisfy the   How to destroy Vaccination physically. 2 1  public vaccinator. Also that the anti-rot must be applied soon after the venom has been inserted into the patient. At the end of a week, when the vaccination is mature, the blood-poisoning is fully accomplished. Otherwise, at first, a solution of sulphite of soda in the proportion of a drachm to four tablespoonfuls of water, applied on a rag for six hours to the punctures, will probably abolish the vaccination. Even afterwards, when the medical certi- ficate is given, the same application repeated from time to time will forestall local inflammation. Readers, whom it is our purpose to educate, should make a note of these facts. There is no law to prevent them from destroying the vaccination by sulphite of soda every time it is attempted, and this chemical is quite harmless compared to the variola-vaccine poison.  Some medical men are casting about to supply vac- cination by an internal treatment ; for they are beginning to lose their hold of puncture-vaccination : the syphilis of the future shows its noseless face at the window of their minds. Thus Dr. Constantine Hering, one of the most renowned physicians in America, says : " Vac- cination is a poisoning ; the cowpox matter acts as a ferment. Hence it is theoretically wrong; but until we can treat smallpox with more certainty by drugs, we have to prefer the lesser evil." He speaks of "the great opposition" to vaccination "from all sides " which has come "into fashion." And concludes, "The use of nosodes [disease-products] prepared with alcohol will before long enable us ... to do without vaccination. We are coming nearer to it every day." This is from Philadelphia, August 1877.  And in the Organon, a new medical journal published in Liverpool, January 1878, a writer, in whom surely we recognise Dr. Skinner, one of the first names in these Tracts, observes : " We are strongly of opinion that at this present moment three-fourths, if not all, the so-called vaccine lymph in this country is variolous [smallpox] matter passed through the cow." He applauds the   22   Vaccination Tracts.   sentiment of Dr. Dyce Brown, that " smallpox should be treated with vaccine lymph, properly diluted, and given internally ; " and says that it " has been stated on good authority, that if three or four doses of variolinum, cm. or m.m., have been given, at intervals of a week, to an infant before its first vaccination, it will not take; and what is more, it is much more likely to be immune, so far as smallpox is concerned, than if vaccinated." This medical writer concludes : " One thing is certain. Vac- cination is a curse, variolation is worse, and compulsory vaccination and revaccination, or rather, variolation and revariolation, are worser and worser."  Truly the faculty is in motion and in commotion.  The same fact is observable in Germany, where " the calf-lymph mania is rampant." In the Maimer Zeitung of Jan. 20, 1878, Dr. Oidtmann denounces the Poison Calf. " The results of calf-lymph vaccination," he says, may easily be foreseen from its well-known results among the sheepfolds of Northern Germany, where it has been so long and so widely employed, that, as the cattle- doctors themselves admit, it has made smallpox per- manent."  Dr. Hoeber of Homburg, in the January number, 1878, of Dcr Praktishe Artzt, considers that "vaccination is extremely prone to develop disease, being an attack upon the system in early childhood, when, owing to teeth- ing, there is already a great predisposition towards disease. Also that vaccination involves a penetrant diseasing (durchseuchung) of the whole body. This lowers all the natural powers of resistance in the child, and as a conse- quence illnesses of various kinds, scrofulous, bronchial, etc. frequently follow." This is over and above any dangers from syphilis and other imparted complaints. It accounts for the decay of the teeth. It accounts for the vast infant death-rate of whooping-cough. Dr. Hoeber concludes by saying : "A ransion of the  vaccination tion law must come, and come soon. It is a public secret that the vaccination law stands upon feet of clay. A slight   Vaccination degrades the Courage of the Body. 23   push is sufficient to overthrow the whole fabric" {The National Anti-compulsory Vaccination Reporter, March r, 1878).   THE NEXT VACCINATION LAW.  The coming law must provide two things. First, it must be declaratory of what vaccination is ; it must in statute define vaccine ; and enforce and compel the use of the statuted substance, and of that alone. For this purpose it must repeal the existing law in all its provisions, and prohibit the use of all but the legal vaccine. Secondly, it must make absolute provision that the statuted sub- stance is pure, and contains only the legal disease : that no overplus of venereal disease or scrofula may be included in the legal bargain.  In the case of calf-lymph being adopted as our new coin of disease, the law must ensure that no cattle scro- fula or other taint exists in the lymph, to be developed in the vaccinated person, weeks, months, or years after- wards. It must afford clear immunity against both the short -time and the long-time consequences of imptire vaccination. The Contagious Diseases (Animals) Act is constantly before Parliament, and cattle are reckoned so infectant that it is proposed to slaughter them close to the pier-head on which they land, so that they may i not infect other cattle, but only furnish casual diseased ; meat to the people. Thus the " pure cow " is at present ! regarded by Parliament as a myth, and the impure ox is continually goring the Debates and the Committee- : rooms. _ It will therefore be for a Vaccinating Parlia- ment, if adopting the calf, to provide in countless ; numbers the missing animal, the calf of immaculate conception, from which the new law is to start. For arm- : to-arm vaccination being given up, and rendered penal, as many calf - vaccinifers will be required, as child- vaccinifers have been wanted in the past. Veal viclis /-   2 4   Vaccination Tracts.   Not va victis! woe to the weak ! - but cUkap veal for the poor. Hampshire Cobbett's ashes would stir in his Farnham grave if it were Alton veal.  The foregoing pages have shown the necessity for a rigid compliance with the two provisions mentioned above. They have demonstrated that vaccination is a basket of different adders. A humane Government naturally wishes that the proper adder should be selected. Let them define that adder. At present, imprudent practitioners make use of the whole basket, each according to his fancy. There is  horsepox  ; cow- pox, genuine and spurious; ass-pox; swine-pox; goat- pox ; sheep-pox ; dog-pox ; and there is no limit here but the limit of diverse animals : then there are all these things multiplied by inoculation from smallpox in man : with all his diseases coiling about the smallpox, so that there is the kneading of man and beast, their " knotting and gendering," in the basket of adders. All this is now in circulation in the veins and lymphatics of little children, and it is difficult to say what arithmetical figure of substance is represented in the total called vacci- nation : we can hardly be wrong in calling the number 666, which includes all degrees of pollution. Now our grandmothers say there is a right and a wrong in every- thing; and it is time also for Parliament to say which is the right thing here : which is vaccine. Or it must adopt the alternative of statuting, that it is all these things together, and whatever else you please : which is not law-making, but chaos-making.  Secondly, it is on all hands agreed that the coming law must give its disease, whatever it be, pure and simple. If it is to be all Noah's ark in pustules, let it be that alone, and not add the universal modern brothel to the compound. The 542 most eminent and experienced denied the brothel participation, but deny it no longer. Even according to them, it must be eliminated. Parlia- ment and the profession, like Shylock, may have its full pound of vaccination though very near our hearts ; but   The Legally-Qualified Practitioner.   25   not one drop of venereal matter must go with it. That is a necessity of its next law ; it must suck every lancet quite clear of all but the true pollution.  Perhaps a way may be found of allowing a defeated profession to march out with befitting grace from the scientific jakes of vaccination ; its gallantry in defending which may be allowed. The conditions may lie in the infinitude and omniscience of "the legally - qualified practitioner." The Sheffield couplet has it - " Vaccination murders are altogether mollified When their general practitioners are legally qualified."  Now if murders can be altered by diplomas, so that a Liverpool Herod on the bench comforts a weeping Rachel, and tells her not to grieve, inasmuch as she has given a child for the good of vaccination and her country, - anything else can be altered by diploma. The world is first made of paper, and then stamped by colleges into substances and values. The legally- qualified practitioner is nature's chancellor, and has her Great Seal. Therefore let Parliament declare as the coming Bill. - First, that the legally-qualified practitioner will be hanged if he does any harm to infants by vacci- nation ; the guilt to be decided by a jury of mothers who knew the child previously. And next, that vaccination shall be whatever the legally-qualified practitioner pleases: variolimim of the millionth potency : tartar emetic under the skin ; or other ways, means, and things. And let the legally-qualified practitioner have power to sign certificates of successful vaccination after any of these processes. It is certain that the veracity of the certificates will be attested by the mildness of the next epidemics of  smallpox . And that what Dr. Wyld (see Note 5) says of the happy 2,000,000 in Belgium and America will be exhibited here also'. Thus vaccination, by the simple development of " the legally-qualified practitioner," will retreat into harmlessness, until at a not distant day its present venereal and scrofulous face will be inter christianos non nomin- andum, a thing " unspeakable " among decent men.   26   Vaccination Tracts.   CONTAGION, INFECTION, AND TELEDEMY ; AND THEIR RELATION TO THE SO- CALLED VACCINATION.  Variolous vaccination is now admitted by many- experienced medical men to propagate smallpox. It is smallpox from the first, and whatever appearances the vesicles it produces in the heifer may assume, those vesicles contain smallpox, and have no identity in real nature with Jenner's cowpox.  During the recent smallpox panic, when vaccination and revaccination were extensively practised, and many schools were thus infected with inoculated smallpox, the writer's practice showed him cases where the vaccinated person communicated the infection to the nursery, the school, and the home. The vaccinated or variolated are evidently centres of contagion to the community ; centres of smallpox, and require seclusion while they are under their form of disease.  How long this seclusion should last it is difficult to say, for the effects of vaccination are not terminable like those of natural smallpox. The latter is undergone, and passes away, leaving indeed evil consequences sometimes, but no trace which can be called smallpox. On the contrary, inoculated smallpox, now called  vaccination tion, remains in the system just as gout, consumption, and venereal disease remain, and those who are susceptible may thus have smallpox for life, as others have venereal.  The writer once attended a child suffering from an aggravated form of milk-crusts- porrigo larvalis. During the progress of the case the largest and best defined smallpox pustules, as big as fourpenny pieces, appeared on the head in the midst of the other eruption. The child had probably been variolated, and here the smallpox in his blood took opportunity of manifesting itself. Such cases have doubtless occurred to others ; and pregnant conclusions regarding the indwelling of inoculated dis-   Contagion, Infection, and Teledemy.   27   ease, and the remote consequences of vaccination, may be gathered from them.  Variolous vaccination propagates a peculiar form of smallpox by direct contagion; as when children sit close together on the benches of a school, or play together in the nursery. How far the infection, which is itself atmos- pheric contagion, extends, is a point difficult to settle ; whether the diseased atmosphere is wider or less wide than the sphere of natural smallpox. But if contagion- exists at all, it is certain that distant contagion or infection exists also. Observation, and the analogy of the physical and moral worlds, attest both these processes.  There is a third thing more active than either contagion or infection ; the circumstance of which Gregory and other writers allude to under the head of atmospheric con- ditions, viz. " an epidemic constitution of the air." How- ever this may be explained by wise thinkers in the future, there is no doubt that Gregory's form of expression contains a truth. There is a set and direction of the atmosphere, including the imponderable principles which reign in it and over it, which transmit evils and diseases as the electric wire added to the telephone, and the telephone to mankind, transmits voices and sounds. The whole air may thus become ranged in lines of communication, down upon any particular district and population, and the vials of pestilence be poured in at the other end of it, producing, not telephonies, but tele-epidemics. Moreover, lesser teledemic currents, from single cases, may strike corresponding ends in susceptible individuals, and produce apparently isolated cases of dis- ease : but which are not isolated, but communicant and strictly correspondential. And now the problem occurs, how are the teledemic circumstances of an epidemic visitation modified by the fact that the community is already in a state of permanent chronic variolation ?  Observe in passing, that when the " epidemic constitu- tion of the air" is not present, the greater number of individuals cannot exhibit the ordinary phenomena of   28   Vaccination Tracts.   smallpox : by inoculation they may have it in them, and it may attempt to show itself, lurking and working within, the meanwhile ; but experience shows that it cannot come forth. This fact alone is sufficient to show that, after artificial variolation, any eruption may betoken smallpox, and be fruitful of it to the community ; and that sensual evidence cannot contradict the position, that those who are successfully invaded by variola-vaccine have consti- tutional smallpox.  But, in answer to the question asked above, how the universality of variola-vaccine affects the people when smallpox-time arrives, when the " epidemic constitution of the air " is present, and the teledemic vial has been poured out into it, - common sense and reason suggest that the smallpox basis already existing must become a willing carrier of the disease, and swell and fatten it in its progress. If the variolated, having smallpox in per- manence, are some of them insusceptible, yet are they all the richer conduits of the running infection. To suppose otherwise were to forget analogy. When a new vice is introduced, it is those who have had some inkling of it, and who are not likely to show it, for they have its cunning too, who convey it to their fellow-men and women. If ardent spirits are to assail and extinguish a tribe of poor Indians, it is those Indians who have had a taste, and who have a chronic recollection, and who are somewhat seasoned, that first commend the chalice to the rest. If a new laxity of life is to arise, the elder sinners will receive its occasion, and proffer its fruits to the half- virtuous, on their road to the virtuous. And so forth through endless examples. The body of man is a mirror of these things. It is therefore fatally sure that the vario- lated or vaccinated are fluent mediums of teledemic  smallpox , receive it heartily themselves, however hypocritically their inured bodies cushion it, and purvey it to the world.  This does not rest on reasoning alone : here are Pearce's famous statistics, showing that vaccination broadens each succeeding visitation of smallpox : -   Contagion, Infection, and Teledemy.   29   "Vaccination was made compulsory by an Act of Parliament in the year 1853 ; again in 1867, and still more stringent in 1871. Since 1853, we have had three epidemics of smallpox, each being more severe than the one preceding.  Date. Deaths from Smallpox.  1st. 1857-58-59 - - 14,244 2nd. 1863-64-65 - - 20,059 3rd. 1870-71-72 - - 44,840  Increase of population from 1st to 2nd epidemic 7 per cent. Increase of smallpox in the same period nearly 50 per cent. Increase of population from 2nd to 3rd epidemic 10 per cent.  Increase of smallpox in the same period 120 per cent. Deaths from smallpox in the first ten years after the  enforcement of vaccination, 1854 to 1863, 33,515. In the second ten years, 1864 to 1873, 70,458."  These figures were compiled from the Reports of the Registrar-General, and were examined and verified at his office, Somerset House, February 13, 1877. The facts they indicate have since been admitted in Parliament by Mr. Sclater Booth.  We sum up here in a few positions.  1. Smallpox is contagious, or catching from person to person.  2. It is also infectious, or contagious by the propaga- tion of its effluvia, which have contact at a certain dis- tance. It is, however, one of the heaviest of contagions, in other words, it is one of the least contagious of diseases : its gross materiality renders it less dangerous than the subtle emanation of scarlet fever. It does not reach far from the person; and its contagion is easily prevented by known means.  3. Its epidemic or teledemic power is greatest when it does not arise primarily from contagion, but from the very banks and reservoirs of human evil, whatever they   3°   Vaccinatiofi Tracts.   may be, playing upon, and represented in, " an epidemic constitution of the atmosphere."  4. Vaccination lies as man's own special invitation under all these states ; receives, intensifies, and amplifies them ; and is indeed, throughout, smallpox calling unto smallpox. Here man stands as the minister of a per- petual teledeme, and spreads parliamentary medical epi- demics over all the nations now of the civilized world.  5. Under these circumstances this disease cannot die out; it stands above the "chance and change'' of epidemics ; and is the subject of perpetual culture in the garden of medical sin. It has tried hard to die, as shown by the past compared with the present ; but the more universal vaccination and revaccination become, the more it asserts itself in the most modern time. In this respect it is unlike other pests, such as plague, cholera, etc. which, not being cultivated by a lucrative process, have for the most part disappeared.  6. Smallpox hospitals are the culminating mistake in the social treatment of the disease. They are sewers of death to their inmates. They are the most concentrated teledemes to the country. The true policy with smallpox, in itself now an insignificant disease, is to let each case lie where it falls, and to treat it there as it ought to be treated.  7. The word Teledeme is made after telegraph, telephone, etc. Tele means at a distance, and Demos, the people. Any influence or force may become teledemic if the lines of teledeme are ready - a distant contagion, a distant excitement, or event. Teledeme expresses the vehicle and tramway of the influx, not the thing which flows in. Applied -in disease, the term means, that a power at one (the distal) end of the teledemic lines infuses the evil, and that the other end enters into, and is, the recipient people. The teledeme-force we are now treating of is twofold, - An influx of natural evil in par- tial epidemics; an influx of professional evil from the perpetual and general epidemic of variolo-vaccination.   Notes.   3i   NOTES.  Note I. - This is not the fact. The Belgian system inoculates from calves diseased from one heifer which had the disease twelve years ago. The text would imply that there is a succession of heifers, which there is not.  Note 2. - Dr. Wyld's negative proof dares not appeal to Dr. Gregory's, following Jenner's, counter-proof, namely, of inoculating the vitulated patients with smallpox (see p. 15), to show their in- susceptibility to the inoculated kind. Dr. Gregory truly thought this a necessary complement to the negative logic.  Note 3. - Speaking of vaccination direct from animals, Dr. Seaton, "Handbook of Vaccination" (p. 337), says, "The difficulties in applying such a plan to the vaccination of the general population are, I apprehend, quite insuperable." He goes on to say, "There is no one in England whose opinion on this subject will be received with so much respect as Mr. Ceely's, because there is no one who has nearly the knowledge that he possesses of the disease in the cow and of its transplantation to the human species. He looks upon this proceeding as not only open to the objections of impracticability, as applied to the general population, and of unsuccess ; but he says also that, so far from being likely to produce fewer ailments and cuta- neous eruptions in the pre-disposed, he knotus from his experience that it would, as being more instating, produce more."  Note 4. - The value of Medical Certificates and Statistics. - An article on "Certificates of Death," by Mr. Henry May, Health Officer to the Aston Union, Birmingham, says: "In certificates given by us voluntarily, and to which the public have access, it is scarcely to be expected that a medical man will give opinions which may tell against or reflect upon himself in any way, or which are likely to cause annoyance or injury to the survivors. In such cases he will most likely tell the truth, but not the whole truth, and assign some prominent symptom of the disease as the cause of death. As in- stances of cases which may tell against the medical man himself, I will mention erysipelas from vaccination, and puerperal fever. A death from the first cause occurred not long ago in my practice, and although I had not vaccinated the child, yet in my desire to preserve vaccination from reproach I omitted all mention of it from my certi- ficate of death."  This throws a candid light on the truthfulness of the returns under a compulsory power-making and lucre-making Act, and warns the public against attaching credit to the numbers of vaccinated, un- vaccinated, and uncertain-if-vaccinated deaths in the Registrar's weekly accounts.   3 2   Vaccination Tracts.   Note 5. - Dr. Wyld's pyramid of Calf ad Infinitum stands upon itt apex with only his finger to steady it. For he defines, March 17, 1878, that the virus he uses has descended in an unbroken chain from animal to animal, from one case of natural or spontaneous cowpox which occurred at Beaugency in France in 1866. We learn too from Dr. Edward Rushmore, of Plainfield, New Jersey, U. S., that the Massachusetts calf- virus is likewise derived from "the well-known French stock." Dr. Seaton, " Handbook of  vaccination tion," p. 94, says, "Lymph of a very active kind, . . . obtained from the natural disease in a cow at Beaugency in 1866, . . . after being passed through three animals, . . . still manifested the active and virulent symptoms which attend the use of some stocks of primary cow-lymph. "  Mr. Sclater Booth is giving Government money to experiment with this alleged lymph. " Quackery," says Cobbett, "has always one shuffle left."  What a slenderly certificated substance is here ! The pure lymph " left its source twelve years ago. It came from so rare a disease that there is no accredited stock since. For these twelve years it has been perambulating calves in France, America, and England. It has also been perambulating the various honesty of medical men during the same period. They are not calves. May it have been helped and jogged on the journey by a little vano a- vaccine, as pure Jennerian lymph was helped, jogged, and finally superseded? For the professional Ulysses was with it throughout. The alleged calf-succession has no history attached to it, such as succession demands. The evidence of genuineness offered here would hold in no other case. You would require a trial as long as the " Tichborne " before on Wyld's own principle, viz. of genuine- ness, ^ Virus could honestly be applied to a baby . These, we know, are impossible conditions to exact of " pure lymph; but they are not of our making; and they only prove how wrong Vaccination, and Vaccination Law, are from top to bottom - they prove that Absurdity and Credulity are the nurses of be h te things In short calf-lymph can never come permanently into the od| ace of vaccination. And it is presumable from a considera- tion of the moral and physical evidence that the greater par of Dr. WykTs calf-lymph is sham calf, concealing diplomatically the old wolf cow-smallpox. Let him demonstrate the contrary Upon ha capacity to do this, depends, on his own showing, his right to Sffin the way he proposes with the life of *e ^nman "ce. of rtiis the Government may rest assured, that any new preicAu  from Anti-vaccinators.   Price id. each; is. 6d. per dozen; I2J. per 100.   VACCINATION TRACTS   HISTORICAL AND CRITICAL SUMMARY IN THREE PARTS   PART II.   The Cry of the People against Vaccination is seconded by the Registrar-General's Returns, and justified by the Evidence of Pathology   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 1878  [No. 13.]   THE VACCINE DISEASE CONSIDERED AS THE SOURCE OF OTHER DISEASES.  At first sight, especially to confirmed vaccinators, nothing seems wilder, or more wide of the mark, than the assertion, frequently made, that vaccination causes a large and ever-enlarging disease-rate and death-rate by maladies quite different from the vaccine disease. This is particularly the case, because the effects of vaccination are scarcely ever kept in view by the practitioner for more than a few weeks from the operation. After such a date lie honestly, but ignorantly, scouts the suggestion from parents and non-professionals that such and such results are due to his deed, and that the child has never been the same since that deed was done. It is not to be expected of him that he shall consent to trace effects years afterwards, and throughout life, to the same trifling puncture which he inflicted, like Emile Ollivier's first prick of war, " with a light heart."  To correct his shortcomings, and to unstop his ears, two agents now accost him. First, philosophical physi- cians, like Brudenell Carter, whose minds are of longer fibre than three weeks, speak in this fashion : " I think that a large proportion of the cases of apparently inherited syphilis [venereal disease] are in reality vaccinal, and that the syphilis . . . does not show itself until the age of from eight to ten years, by which time the relation between cause and effect is apt to be lost sight of" So that a' family of little girls may all seem to the family doctor to be uninjured by vaccination, and yet one or more of them may show the venereal disease implanted by vaccination when they are young ladies. Then also the dreadful fact may be, and will be,, covered up with the potent cloak of   Vaccination the Great New Factor in the Death-rate. 3  another name ; and the syphilis, if admitted, will not be called, as Brudenell Carter calls it, vaccinal syphilis.  The second agent which corrects the ephemeral mind of the family doctor is statistics.  The subject is too large to be more than alluded to in theseTracts. But here is a specimen of it clipped and con- densed from the Times: - " Lord Wharncliffe, presiding at the Sheffield Quarter Sessions, gave startling statistics show- ing that the number of admissions to the South Yorkshire Lunatic Asylum at Wadsley this year exceeded those of any previous year. The increase in the number of patients at the end of 1877 over the previous year was 74, while the increase the previous year was only 60. Several houses on the estate lately occupied by atten- dants are being prepared for the reception of patients. The annual reports of the Visiting Justices of the County Asylums, presented this week at the Quarter Sessions, show in some instances a remarkable increase of pauper lunacy. In Dorsetshire the increase of pauper patients from Unions in the county had in the past year been the largest that had probably occurred since the establish- ment of the County Lunatic Asylum. The number now is 377 against 348 at the close of 1876. In Somerset the patients have increased since April from 627 to 644. In this county, arrangements are being made for an additional Asylum. In Wiltshire the visitors are build- ing a new wing on the female side at a cost of nearly ^4000."  If infantile and juvenile syphilis were the disease now in question, and it were housed in asylums, Mr. Brudenell Carter's evidence would show that the overflow of the asylums into new wards and wings is clearly the doing of vaccination. But why should this be the case with lunacy ? For this reason : -  When a definite constitutional disease is increasing with a steady progress there must be a steady cause of its increase. On looking over the list of possible causes, the first question is, Whether there is any new or com-   4   Vaccination Tracts.   paratively New Radical Factor which has been intro- duced into the health of the country? Every age imports some new factors, mental, bodily, or circumstantial, and each such factor has its own momentum and power of causing health or unhealth. But in sifting the factors the principal only require to be dealt with. And we ask, with confidence, What is the principal new factor in this age ? For universality, and admitted power in one direction, what factor can for a moment be compared to infant vaccination and to revaccination ? Granting that this were a blessing, it is the hugest new factor; the hugest seed of some kind of future. And if you find crops coming up which you cannot account for all over those human acres where you have seen the vac- cination husbandman sowing seed, can you fail to suspect, even before you verify, that the sower is the cause of the crops ? Seeds are little things and apt to get mixed with other seeds ; and the less the seeds are, especially if they are virtually invisible, the more they may be mixed without detection. So, though the husbandman intended one sort of crop, and looked for a goodly field of " pure vaccine " to be used up and done with at a fortnight's limit, if the field bears cancers and consumptions, and venereals and lunacies, and even whooping-coughs and infant deaths manywise, and if these are quite new in extent, and corresponding in quantity to the very measure of the sower's hand as made into a general power by law, the inference is irresistible, that that sower is the responsible cause of the greater part of those crops.  We shall see in the sequel that there is a traceable pathological connection between lunacy and vaccination: these remarks are limited to the physiological connection.  But if one disease is thus put in clear correspondence with this one new factor, universal compulsory  vaccination tion, so are all diseases. For there is no morbid pro- duct or state that may not be injected or literally pieced from the person affected into other people : not a cold,   Vaccination the Great New Factor in the Death-rate. 5  inflammation, fever, or evil habit of body. It is indeed hard to see that there is anything good or evil that is not contagious, infectious, and influential at the longest con- ceivable or inconceivable distances, and that may not be put into the material body as material matter ; and this especially when the arts and polities of mankind make use of all their force to aid and abet the deed.   THE REGISTRAR-GENERAL ON THE SITUATION.  In support of the foregoing assertion, that vaccination implants many diseases, we now cite a return, issued by the Registrar-General, of the number of deaths in England and Wales from fifteen specified diseases during the three periods, 1847-53, I 854-67, and 1868-75. These diseases are, atrophy (wasting away) and debility (including premature birth), mesenteric (glandular) con- sumption, convulsions, cholera, diarrhoea, diphtheria, bron- chitis, pneumonia, whooping-cough, erysipelas, pyaemia (pus in the blood), skin disease, scrofula, venereal disease, and smallpox. They have been selected as being diseases of that class which flourishes in a diseased state of the blood. The view suggested by the figures appears further to affirm that these diseases are actually dissemi- nated by the practice of vaccination. The worst figures are under the following heads : venereal disease, bron- chitis, pyaemia, and skin diseases. The periods selected mark three epochs respectively, of which the first was prior to the Vaccination Act; the second began when vaccination was made compulsory ; and the third when it was strictly enforced. The average annual per- centage of deaths of persons of all ages has steadily increased throughout these periods. The increase has been very nearly one-tenth per cent, annually between the first and third, the second holding a middle place.   6   Vaccination Tracts.   In other words, the increase of the death-rate has reached about one per thousand per annum during the very years when vaccination was passing by legal enactment from general to universal use. It is no new theory that poisonous matter can be conveyed in vaccine lymph, but it has never before received such confirmation as in these figures. The deaths from the fifteen diseases have increased in England and Wales from 124,799 m X ^>M to 217,707 in 1875 ; whilst the population has only risen from eighteen millions to less than twenty-three millions. For the remarks accompanying these figures we are indebted to the Glasgoiu Herald, March 4, 1878.   STATISTICAL FALSEHOODS SUPPORTING VACCINATION.  It was said long ago, when statistics were younger and less cunning than they are now, that there are no things so little reliable as figures, excepting only facts. Experi- ence shows that statements of facts founded upon figures may be of bottomless falsity. We condense from the Anti-compulsory Vaccination Reporter, December 1, 1877, the following proof of this position : -  Smallpox Death Percentages.  An instance of the dishonesty of official medical re- ports in respect to death percentages from smallpox is exposed by Dr. Heinrich Oidtmann in the Impfgcgner (Anti-vaccinator) for November n, 1877.  According to the official report of the smallpox epi- demic of 1871-72 in the village of Lovenich, circle of Erkelenz, eighty-two cases and eighteen deaths occurred. Deaths of the unvaccinated "100 percent.;" deaths of the vaccinated "18 per cent." A fair specimen probably, observes Dr. Oidtmann, of the official reports all over the country.  When we look closely at the statistics of Lovenich, we   Statistical Falsehoods supporting Vaccination. 7   find that, of all the unvaccinated children under the age of fourteen months, during which months few are vac- cinated (the German law makes it compulsory within the year, instead of three months, as with us), only four took the disease ; and all of these were sucking infants of mothers attacked by smallpox; these four died - " 100 per cent." But of all the other unvaccinated children or persons in the village, none even took smallpox, let alone died of it.  On the other hand, of the few vaccinated children under fourteen months old, three took it (a higher per- centage on their number), and all these also died - "100 per cent. " again.  But seventy-five vaccinated persons of other ages took smallpox, and of these eleven died. Now by adding these eleven to the three deaths of infants, while of the unvaccinated there were no deaths to add, and thus reckoning the vaccinated deaths as fourteen on seventy- eight, the percentage of " 18 per cent. " for the vaccinated is arrived at ; the death-rate of the unvaccinated, namely, the four infants, being at the rate of " 100 per cent.''  The uncooked fact is, that there died more than three times as many, and there sickened of smallpox more than nineteen times as many, vaccinated as unvaccinated. Also, a far higher percentage of vaccinated infants took  smallpox , and these, namely, the three infants, died all, viz. at the rate of " 100 per cent.," just as did the smaller per- centage of the unvaccinated. The translation of which this is a close abstract is signed by Mary C. Hume- Roth ery.  It is well worth the reader's while to take pains to master this statistical fraud; for there are frauds like it under every foot of the fabric of compulsory  vaccination tion. We may put it grossly thus: If there are a million vaccinated cases of smallpox, and 333,333 of them die, that is at the rate of 33^ per cent. If there is only one unvaccinated person in the same area who takes smallpox, and he dies, that is at the rate of " 100 per   8   Vaccination Tracts.   cent." For observe, reader, that only one-third of the vaccinated, only 333>333i ha ve died; whereas of the un- vaccinated all have died, the unvaccinated unit himself is extinguished. One and all has died. In this way all the unvaccinated are swept from the earth, whilst two- thirds of the vaccinated are left. And in the gross case which we make for the reader to see it, vaccination, judging from the clean sweep of death on the unvacci- nated (one), has saved two-thirds of a million of human lives.  To the best of our knowledge this is the statistical basis upon which compulsory vaccination rests. As you see, the figures here do not attach themselves to facts, but are arithmetical fictions. In Oidtmann's cases at Loven- ich, a plain man would naturally suppose that a large number of unvaccinated persons had died, whereas o?ily four died; and that a very small number of vaccinated died, whereas fourteen died. But figure-swindling makes the contrary appear. The whole percentage reckoning is such swindling.  Take the four infants who died. What were their cir- cumstances? They were sucklings on the breasts of mothers with smallpox - vaccinated mothers. Does not that count as a reason for their deaths whether they were vaccinated or not. The three vaccinated infants who died were not protected by vaccination ; and why should the four be more liable to death for the want of it? It is not the bare figures chimerically applied, but the cir- cumstances in every case, which must be criticised if we are to test the value of vaccination. And the figures are only valuable in their gross amount, which in every case and place shows a higher death-rate for the vacci- nated ; in the present case fourteen vaccinated to three unvaccinated. It is true that of the unvaccinated there are less to die, because they are the minority ; but their relation to vaccination can only be shown by their status, not by a percentage levied upon themselves ; for among other reasons such percentage makes it irrelevant how   Statistical Falsehoods supporting Vaccination. 9  many of them die : thus, if only one is vaccinated, and he dies, it is " 100 per cent. if two, and they die, it is still " 100 per cent. if a hundred, and they die, it is still only " 100 per cent." Here figures mean nothing; but the status of the unvaccinated means everything. If they are poor, sickly, neglected, intemperate, outcast, least hunted by the medical vaccinator, which the un- vaccinated generally are ; or if they are especially panic- stricken by the medical evil eye ; these things alone are the occasions of their death by smallpox. The  vaccination tors fully admit this argument on their own side when they come to account for vaccinated deaths. The omnipotent circumstance to which they charge these is want of proper vaccination and revaccination. They explore the arms of their field of dead to find out the status of those who were their patients. The anti-vaccinators have no objec- tion to that, but only to the falsification of ruling that where no marks are visible the return shall be unvac- cinated. But they go further, and inquire into the full circumstances of antecedent poverty, neglect, decay of constitution, and the like. If Parliament is to be honest, and not to countenance a swindle compared to which thimble-rigging is venial, the whole system of reckoning the proportions of the deaths of vaccinated and unvac- cinated by percentages, made up as above, must be disallowed, and a criticism of the circumstances of each particular case must be entered on. And in the mean- time, if a thousand vaccinated people die in an epidemic, and only one unvaccinated dies, the real figures are a thousand to one, more probably a thousand to nothing, against the vaccinated. They show plainly that  vaccination tion is a national delusion and a professional snare.  The way to vaccination statistics is embodied in Mr. Hume-Rothery's offer to the Local Government Board, and which the Board refused. He has repeated the same offer in The Marylebone Mercury.  "Sir, - I have written to the St. Pancras Board of Guardians offering to accompany any deputation they   i° Vaccination Tracts.  may be pleased to appoint in a house-to-house visitation in the smallpox dens of London, that we may learn from the people themselves whether they and their friends who have had smallpox have or have not derived any benefit from vaccination, and may then make known the result to the public, thus helping towards the solution of the vaccination question. I should be glad if the deputation consisted exclusively of pro-vaccinators. I have proposed that we should visit three hours a day for three consecu- tive days. Permit me through your columns to make a similar offer to every other London Board of Guardians, Vestry, and Sanitary Board. - Yours very truly,  William Hume-Rothery,  President of the N.A.C.V. League. Merton Lodge, Tivoli, Cheltenham, February 28. "  Councillor Pickering of Leeds undertook such an ex- amination, and the result was the disproval of the per- centage method wherever personal inquiry was made. It was found that there were in every case reasons why the unvaccinated had been left alone, and that those reasons explained the readiness to catch smallpox, and the proclivity to die of it. Moreover, a large number of the dead were found both at Leeds, and lately at Ipswich, to have been vaccinated, the returns on this head being false.   LIFE ASSURANCE HURT IN ITS BENEFAC- TION BY ITS PRESENT COMMERCE WITH VACCINATION.  In regard to vaccination, all the insurance offices are at present on the same footing as those which issue their policies on the foundation of taking no account of suicide. Vaccination, as we have seen, admittedly shortens the general life-rate. The offices make those who do not commit vaccination-suicide pay for those who do. This   Life Assurance plagued by Vaccination. 1 1   reverses the very principle of life assurance. And if there is any force in the Registrar-General's figures it must bring the offices to grief.  The principle of life assurance lies in estimating the general longevity by all the statistical means within reach ; then in taking the personal testimony of each candidate for insurance ; and lastly, in checking this report by medical testimony as to the probable longevity of that person. Thus the person is allocated to his own class of lives, and pays for insurance accordingly.  Here medical evidence, important as it is, stands in the second or third place, and has nothing to do with the general tables of longevity, which occupy the first place in the scheme of assurance.  Medical usurpation has turned this order upside down, and has tampered with the principle of the general longevity, making vaccination a power of life. Medicine bestrides the statistics, and commands them.  The subject outlies our space; but a few heads may be mentioned.  1. Life assurances are founded essentially on longeval considerations ; medical experience of vaccination hither- to on ephemeral ones : these two things we have dis- tinguished above as long-time and short-time experiences.  2. Life assurance in admitting the vaccinated accepts the percentage figments as real figures, and gives them weight with its own statistical figures, which are real, and signify facts of life and death.  3. Life assurance accepts the medical testimony that virtually no harm comes of vaccination ; whereas the Registrar-General's testimony in these months of 1878 is, that since vaccination the general death-rate in all ages from fifteen specified diseases has risen steadily from 124,000 in 1847 to 217,000 in 1875 ; the increase of population quite failing to account for the increase of deaths ; the latter increase waxing exactly as the vacci- nation law is more stringently applied.  4. Life assurance, falsely instructed, has accepted as   12   Vaccination Tracts.   fact that the vaccinated are protected against smallpox, which they are not ; and also that they are better lives than other people; whereas they are full of artificial constitutional diseases, which develop themselves in their season, and are seeds of premature death.  5. The vaccinated, being worse lives, ought to pay larger premiums. If it be replied that virtually all (93 per cent.) are vaccinated, and that the general longevity is based on that fact, then the unvaccinated few, after certificate of present soundness, should have better terms, as being better lives, which would remodel and reinvigo- rate the whole system of assurance.  6. In this matter the life offices are traversed by a medi- cal dogma, which corrupts their statistics. All their interests lying the other way, they can afford to stand upon their own basis of real figures, and to put  vaccination tion in its unfavourable place.  7. Insurance offices have hitherto been darkened by orthodox medicine, but since the late thick-coming re- velations, and the Registrar-General's last statistics, vac- cination must stand before them as a destruction that wasteth at noonday.   THE COST OF VACCINATION TO THE RATEPAYERS AND TO THE COUNTRY. BRIBERY OF VACCINATORS.  " I take exception to this statement, ' that our Govern- ment provides free of cost vaccination.' From the reports of the Local Government Board, I find that during the last ten years the public vaccinators of this country have re- ceived in vaccination fees out of the poor rates .£753,205. Is this gratuitous vaccination? No, sir, if medical men were required by our paternal, or rather grand-mater- nal Government, to vaccinate gratuitously, they would soon cease to prate about the ' immortal Jenner ' and the   The Vaccination Butcher's Bill.   '3   'blessings of vaccination,' which latter reside only in the fees. But all is not told yet, for in addition to the above sum these 'gratuitous' servants of the State have re- ceived during the last nine years the sum of ,£71,640 in bonuses or awards. Some of these premiums for dis- easing healthy children are of no insignificant amount, and suggest a reply to the question, Why do doctors believe in vaccination ? These are a few specimens for the years 1875-76 : -  Number of  Recipients. Awards.  2 . . ^182 5 o I . . 275 14 o  , 1 269 4 o  3 486 7 o  5 • • 3°7 15 0  6 . . 336 18 o  1 . . 149 18 o 1 . . 258 14 6 34i 15  or practice that could not   Name of Union.  Bethnal Green Birmingham  55  Liverpool Leeds  55  Marylebone St. Pancras Sheffield  There is no dosrma   o o be   enforced where such means are at the disposal of officials who carry out the law. The gold is the best argument in the service, indeed almost the only one left, and this device of paying for the work a second time, in the shape of - awards,' is a keen stroke of policy, and the surest way of perpetuating the vaccination delusion.  Wm. Young, M.P.S, 8 Neeld Terrace, Harrow Road, W. February 261/1, 1878."  " Plate sin with gold, and the strong lance of Justice hurtless breaks," says Shakespeare.  Plate professional falsities with gold (Jenner's ,£30,000) and they become first invulnerable assertions, then false sciences, then engender abominable practices, and become false arts with a new cunning ; these are em- bodied in institutions and endorsed in all ages by the 542   14   Vaccination Tracts.   most eminent and experienced physicians in Europe. Next, Parliaments encage nations in them and multiply the prison bars ; the original gold following all the way. At last the golden lust becomes a hypocritical professional religion, a golden calf with the medical Aaron and the people dancing round it, and nothing but a new religion in men can get rid of it.  "And Moses took the calf which they had made, and burnt it in the fire, and ground it to powder, and strawed it upon the water, and made the children of Israel drink of it. . . . And the Lord plagued the people because they made the calf, which Aaron made."  That is the last or judgment stage of golden calves in general, whether the calves represent arts, or sciences, or false pretences of giving health by doing evil. Such pretences are put forth whenever the medical Aarons say, " These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt."  The Government vaccinators, still urging "greater acti- vity among the local authorities," and holding out more gold in bonuses, admit to the House of Commons the " in- crease in smallpox mortality" tabled in Dr. Pearce's statistics. They account for it as due to epidemics. But if vaccination is of no account in the presence of epi- demics, what is it for? If, as the Pall Mall Gazette phrases it, epidemic smallpox "lacks the wonted respect " of some other smallpox for vaccination, and if the " respect " is only shown when smallpox is naturally mild, and does not come with " an epidemic atmosphere," why, this means that smallpox leaves vaccination out and is unmodified by it. This is Mr. Sclater Booth's case for greater activity with this cowardly remedy ; it is evidently also his reason for going to the calf to replenish the courage of vaccination.   The Body of Vaccination Deaths dissected.   '5   THE NARRATIVES OF THE SUFFERING PEOPLE MAKE ONE BODY OF DEATH HAVING A TRUE PATHOLOGY.  A pathological thread runs through vaccination deaths and proves them to be such. This is a subject of first- class importance, and can only be touched upon here in a tract. A volume could easily be written to do justice to it. The problem is as follows : -  Hundreds of cases are recorded in which the deaths of infants who were healthy up to the hour of vaccination followed, after greater or lesser periods of suffering, often horrible suffering, the insertion of vaccine ; the suffering generally dating from the operation, and disease steadily advancing therefrom. The vaccinating doctors for the most part deny all connection between the vaccination and the death, and influence coroners' juries to pronounce death from some other cause. The difficulty is that the circumstantial witnesses of the death are only mothers, fathers, and relations, and their testimony is of no weight in scientific scales. The very reason that they love makes them foolish in comparison to the impartial doctor - if only he were impartial.  The objection against them may be admitted. Their testimony is only equal to their knowledge, and not to their affections, which do not help the case. But, on the other hand, their testimony is now a gathered document.  The National Anti-Compulsory Vaccination Reporter for Jan. i, 1878, gives some parental details of eighty- eight vaccination murders. Two years ago the same periodical issued a similar list. The experience of this writer has supplied him with cases. In fact, we have before us about two hundred events of death recorded by the injured families. Now although any one or two of these, standing alone, might be casualties, and accounted for as accidental disease independent of vaccination, yet if a clear thread of pathological symptoms runs through   i6   Vaccination Tracts.   nearly all of them, and if one end of the thread is vacci- nation, and the other end death, then the interpretation of such cases becomes very important. The records may indeed be given without technical knowledge by poor uneducated people, or by " rabid anti-vaccinators," or by weeping childless mothers; but a pathological thread once traced puts aside all ignorance and " shrieking," and shows that the rude accounts contain the fact and the truth. The rudeness is then an important unconscious witness pervading the case.  Such a thread does exist, and can be plainly followed in almost every separate case.  First, there is the coincidence of time, which might be only casual in a single case, but cannot be so in a hundred and fifty. The ruin began close upon the vaccination.  Next, the symptoms range themselves clearly into lymph-poisoning, blood-poisoning, and specific-poisoning, as with venereal, for instance. Jenner's first mark of efficient vaccination was erysipelas and phagedena in the cow, and erysipelas on the human infant. Erysipelas is an internal contagion of a low devitalizing type, proper to the cellular tissue and the lymphatic system. It flies from part to part of the body, being infectious from region to region of the lymphatics, and the lymphatics go everywhere, and are a complete man in their form : if you could see them alone you would see a human form. This low rot, erysipelas, travels about upon them, from surface to depth, because they are weakened, and part after part becomes as stubble to St. Anthony's fire. Now this fire applied into cellular tissue and lymphatics Jenner declared to be the requisite of vaccination, and he put it into the infants' lymphatics. The spontaneous heifer-lymph (Wyld) he declared to be inefficient. - N.B. All vaccination at present is done with Jenner-lymph or with worse.  Now look from the lymphatic infant, and the erysipelas which searches it with disease, to the body of vaccination   The Body of Vaccination Deaths dissected.   17   deaths. To facilitate the reader, we reduce the eighty- eight cases to their medical elements, as follows : -  1. Erysipelas with glandular infection : wandering pyaemia. 4. Erysipelas. 5. Fever with blotches- blood-poisoning. 6. Skin eruption and phagedenic sores : cancroid. 7. Phagedenic can- croid on arm - bone exposed. 8. Vaccino-syphilis - blood-poisoning. 9. Blood-poisoning with resort upon the lungs. 10. Lymphatic- poisoning and abscesses. Arm swollen, thigh burst ; abscesses neck and chest. Paralysis right side, right foot drawn up and con- tracted. 11. Lymph and vein poisoning, gangrenous. 12. Cholera, then convulsions from vaccination shock. 13. Erysipelas, whole arm " like a piece of raw liver : " died after continuous suffering for six weeks. 14. Syphilis three months after : phagedenic sores in ears, nose, lips, throat : also on buttocks. 15. Convulsions, abscesses, mesenteric disease, phagedenic ulcers : syphilis. 16. General sores, blood or lymph poisoning : head, neck, and arm much swollen. 17. General pyaemia or gangrenation. 18. Phage- denic ulceration. 19. General eruption, phagedena of nose, blood- poisoning. 20. Convulsed for three weeks, abscess on the side of head and neck : death after four months' continuous suffering. 21. Skin disease : first inflamed arm and eczema : child ten months old : vaccinations never healed : died of exhaustion. 23. Vaccination shock, convulsions. 24. Lymph-poisoning, phagedenic sores : putrid. 25. The same. 27. Skin-poisoning, lymphatic. 28. Phagedenic sores. 29. Phagedenic glandular cancroid ulceration de- nuding ribs. 31 . Lymphatic glandular poisoning. 32. Haemorrhage from the bowels - blood-poisoning certified. 34. Convulsions. 35. Phagedenic sores, hands, feet, legs, body. Blood-poisoning. 36. Blood-poisoning : general putrid state : like typhus or plague. 38. Do. 40, 41. Blood-poisoning. 42. Blood-poisoning. 43. Erysipelas, convulsions. 44. Erysipelas. 45. Lymphatic inflam- mation of arm, vesicular eruption all over, decline. 46. Decline. 4S. Glandular poisoning. 49. Phagedenic sores one after another. 50. Arm swelling to finger-ends : to neck : then across breast to right arm : upon elbow, bulla. Then down from breast to legs : body purple before death. Terrible pain whenever touched. 51. Vaccination side tender all over : arm turns black : body purple. Lymph and blood poisoning. 52. Side tenderness : glandular swellings : inflammation of the shoulder. Spread day by day : over breast and body to finger-tips : all festering and purple. Abscesses : bulla. 53. Arm swollen to finger-ends : purple : bulla. Right leg all swollen purple, hard. Swelling crossed the body, invaded right arm, leg, and foot with bulla. Body swollen, hard, too tender to touch. 54. Shoulder swollen, purple, inflamed : down arm to fingers. Throat inflammation : insensible : convulsions : body and legs hard, swollen, purple. 55. Arm swollen to finger-ends, then 13 B   1 8   Vaccination Tracts.   across chest and back down the other arm. Screamed on any movement. 56. Erysipelas and blood-poisoning- certified. 57,  58. Well before, never well after vaccination three months ago : between nine and eleven months caught smallpox and died of it.  59. Convulsions: then sores from head to foot. 60. Syphilis - death. Matter from this child vaccinated others, who nearly died. 6l. Blood-poisoning. 62. In three weeks left side, shoulder, head, and neck discoloured. Erysipelas. General putrescence. 63. Syphilis. 64. Do. 65. Eruption. In seven weeks from the vaccination spot, discoloration began. Spread over chest, down body to back, between knees, all over. 66. Arm swollen to finger-ends, across chest, and down to the other finger-ends, then all over the body, and down the legs to toe-ends. No spot undiseased. Right knee trebled in size: right arm hugely swollen: head swollen: abscess at back of it. Swelling on the top of the head: two abscesses under vaccinated arm. Great ecchymosis on the body and neck : fits for four days : child perfectly well previously. 67. Erysipelas. Blooming health Jan. 30th : vaccination then : dead Feb. 9th. 68. Weakly child: eruptions from vaccination. Dr. Ceeley said that "the skin, in consequence of the child's weakness, would not easily be restored where punctured in the arm." 69. Lymph-poisoning: gangrene of arm. 70. Mouth and throat coated with white, arm greatly inflamed, with great foetor. Mead, face, hands, feet, and other parts in holes, and the arm ulcerated to the bone. Two fingers of left hand nearly eaten off : ulcerated left foot and ear, and three large holes on the left side of the head. Cheek, nose, thumb ulcerated. Universal phagedena. A most healthy child till Oct. 17th. Vaccinated. Died Dec. 1st. Cancroid. 71.  vaccination tion shock, acting in twenty - four hours : died atrophied in two months. Perfectly well previously. 72. Vaccine atrophy. 73. Vaccine convulsions. 74. Sores all over : abscess on the side of throat. 75. Erysipelas : bulla. The spots coalesced, and ulcerated to the bone as large as half a crown. Glandular swelling of the armpit, cough, blood from nose. Atrophy. Arm purpled. 76. Skin eruption on the loins, dropsy. Well when vaccinated in December, dead March 6th. 77. Atrophy close after vaccination. 78. Phage- denic sores. 79. Vaccination: erysipelas: thrush: intestinal disease. 80. Arm and chest inflammation, and general skin erysipelas all over. Diffusive erysipelas following vaccination: pneumonia. 81. Healthy till vaccinated. Body enlarged and hard on the left side : convul- sions. Vaccination peritonitis : convulsions. 83. Vaccination rot in five children. 84. Healthy child. Died of vaccination, much swollen. 85. Red inflamed spot on top shoulder, followed by another larger below the elbow. Inflammation to finger-points, much swollen. Then other arm swollen, then across the back to the head, then all over the body. Convulsions, swelling of throat. Body at last black and hard. 86, 87, 88. Erysipelas and lung erysipelas, or lymph-poisoning.   The Pathology of the Vaccination Deaths. 1 9   To illustrate these cases, we here transcribe from Tract No. 5, which see, the following : -  Miss Edith Hutchinson, of Kensington, was vaccinated by the late eminent Dr. Joseph Laurie. The arm swelled enormously, and was hard like wood. After a month it subsided, and then a putrid thrush occurred, which disappeared after some weeks. The disease, was next transferred to the abdomen and its lymphatic system ; and she died of great purulent collections in its cellular tissues, the matter, putrescent, voided by the bowels. I attended the later stages of the case with Dr. L. The mother's report is as follows : -  "The child was in perfect health in May 1S63. Within a few days of the vaccination, she - being nearly six years old - was attacked with inflammation of the lymphatic glands of the arms to so severe an extent that her arms were immensely swollen, and so heavy and hard that each arm had to be supported in a sling ; her sufferings for ten days were very great, at the end of which time her arms gradually resumed their natural appearance But within a few weeks the poor child was prostrated by an attack of apthous ulcera- tion of the mouth, which was of a most distressing character from the peculiarly offensive odour emitted from the gums, etc.  "The dear child was more or less delicate ever after, and, in the following June, enlargement of the abdominal glands and mesenteric disease set in, her life being terminated by a succession of abscesses in the bowels in July 1864, the doctor who attended her telling me that the glandular disease had been coming on for some months.  "S. Hutchinson."  The three stages in this case are a linked chain of consequences uncoiling from the vaccination. 1. The vaccination itself, poison- ous lymph, producing poisonous lymph. 2. The enormous swell- ing of the cellular tissues, and consequently of all the tissues of the arm ; the cellular tissues being the great plane at the end of the whole lymphatic system : the universal lymph plane. All the lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands of the body stand in the relation of centres to the cellular tissue as their great circumference. Effects in the cellular tissue are reflected in intimate effects in the vital lymphatics. It is a great arena of transferences of fluids ; and if you disease it, of transference of diseases. It runs into the depths of every organ in the body ; and a spark of poison in its skin may soon be a devouring fire of poison in its mesentery. 3. The next stage, the malignant thrush, was the index of commencing destruction in the lymphatic system of the abdomen. 4. The centre of the vaccination was reached ; the abscesses in the abdomen were the end of the vaccinatory deed.  Most of the above cases begin with erysipelas, and reveal a poisoning of the whole lymphatic system.   20   Vaccination Tracts.   Some of the more rapid deaths depend upon true blood- poisoning, applied to that vital part of the circulation, the capillaries. Some depend upon vein-poisoning. Some upon actual nerve-poisoning. In the skin, the part attacked by the vaccinator, the most sentient and subtly fine ends of the lymphatics, arteries, veins, and nerves exist in vital sheets or extenses; and in poisoning these, the organism, tier after tier, and the centres, depth within depth, are successively poisoned. The first and superficial swelling of arms, legs, body, and head, is the outward sign of a corresponding inward disaster. The body, as the poor people say, becomes literally rotten and full of corruption. The erysipelas is not of the common type, but a netv disease, - vaccine erysipelas. The thread of this runs through the system, and is abundantly attested by the eighty-eight cases. Besides which we have con- vulsions and paralysis, which are specific from the poison- shock, and also proceed as by a common cause from the irritation of the organic ruin which is going on. And furthermore, we have choleraic death dependent upon the same cause of vaccination. For just as a fatal blow on the head may cause vomiting and evacuation, so a vacci- nation blow may produce the appearance of a fatal diarrhoea. And it is as wrong to chronicle a vaccination death under diarrhoea as it would be to certify vomiting as a cause of death in concussion of the brain. Mr. Sclater Booth deceived the House of Commons with this certi- ficate in the case of Mr. Washington Nye : but see above, p. 17, n. 12.  The outcome is that these cases, and there are hun- dreds more to allege telling the same tale, furnish, when translated ever so roughly into medical language, a pathological thread that proves the genuineness of the cases themselves, and the correctness with which the bereaved fathers and mothers have ascribed the deaths of their children to the act of vaccination. The effects, artlessly and agonizingly told, constitute a coherent body of symptoms, and the cause, vaccination, fits the effects and explains them perfectly.   Smallpox that is not.   2 I   SMALLPOX AS IT WAS IN THE BEGINNING, IS NOW, AND EVER SHALL BE. THINGS THAT ARE NOT CONFOUND THINGS THAT ARE.  The medical mind believes that by complete  vaccination tion continued for ever, smallpox can be stamped out. The medical mind believes that smallpox was and is and will be the most terrible of contagious diseases. How are these two beliefs possible ? Thus. - Stamping out for ever implies that there is always something to be stamped ; and that something, by the medical avowal, is an unvarying quantity, neither more nor less from age to age. It follows from this, that if smallpox is not a terrible or fatal disease at any given moment, visibly, - for example, if there is no case of it in the world, - yet it is potentially and in fact all there, and vaccination is the reason why it is non-apparent. This is fact-swindling, corresponding to the figure-swindling described above, pp. 6-9. It falsifies the teaching of every proportional return of deaths, and makes the whole list unimportant as measured against infinity, which represents the chimera of smallpox. Its influence is seen in the pro- fessional apathy which chronicles death-rates, and only selects for terrifying comment deaths by smallpox. Its influence must extend also to treatment, and condone death-rates, except in the case of smallpox, as being proper and secundum artem. Thus, April 17, 1878, the Daily News records 58 deaths from smallpox, 157 deaths from whooping-cough. But the deaths from whooping- cough are dis-facted, being nothing when compared with the general death by smallpox, which is close behind the 58 deaths, with only vaccination intervening. And so the British people is perpetually dead in smallpox, but alive in vaccination. What, then, are 157 deaths by whooping-cough, compared to this universal death ? Let us, then, pass by all other diseases ; they are nothing com- pared to a disease which in its spectral ruthlessness   22   Vaccination Tracts.   never changes from age to age, but alone of maladies presses down with a perpetual force upon the race, which it is only prevented from extinguishing by vaccination. Here things that are not confound things that are ; and the first principle of modern medicine is a petitio  smallpox ii ad infinitum, a belief in the most irrational ghost ever yet not seen by any one.  Putting aside this lucrative medical spectre, the facts are, that whooping-cough (to say nothing of scarlatina and other contagious diseases) is, positively and relatively, a worse disease than smallpox ; its deaths also being often due to vaccination : that smallpox exists pure and simple, having no bogey smallpox behind it, and that its present purgatory will cease to exist as soon as there is no pay for getting people out of it : that smallpox statistics are on a level with those of other diseases ; and signify the same single quantities ; and relatively are not of terrible proportions : and that smallpox has been ceasing for ages, but is kept up by vaccine variolation ; its cases being indeed terrible in allopathic treatment, and especially in hospitals.  Catechism.  Q. When whooping-cough is not rife, what is that due to ? A. Nature.  Q. When scarlatina is not rife, what is that due to ? A. Nature.  Q. When cholera is not rife, what is that due to ? A. Nature.  Q. When smallpox is not rife, what is that due to ? A. Vaccination.  Q. When other diseases in the course of time have become mild or died out, what is that due to ? A. Nature.  Q. And when smallpox has become mild or died out, what is that due to ? A. Vaccination.   The Vaccination Panacea destroys Treatment. 23  So much for the huge medical ghost, Smallpox that is not. One such spring of action as this unrealizes medi- cine from its foundations, and fills it with superstition, deplorable pretences, cruelty to those who disallow them, and a mind to a despotism which precedes its own mad- ness and dissolution.   VACCINATION HAS PARALYZED THE TREATMENT OF SMALLPOX.  No progress has been made in this century in the treatment of smallpox by the orthodox schools of medi- cine ; and, judging by the death-rate, and by the intensity of panic which accompanies every case of the disease, we may conclude that the treatment is progressively inoper- ative and worthless. As a consequence, the just dread which patients feel of being taken to the smallpox hospitals is increasing.  All this is a natural consequence of vaccination.  For vaccination substitutes itself for treatment as a preliminary to the disease. If vaccination has been successfully performed, the patient is supposed to be half safe, and routine and loss of responsibility on the part of the medical attendant come in as a matter of course. Little is required to be done where mildness and safety are so far assured. If the case, nevertheless, prove serious, routine, once in the saddle, like the old man of the sea is not shaken off; but the attendant feels that all has been done, but that nature or defect of repeated revacci- nation is against him.  In the other case, of non-vaccination, the doctor has made up his mind for the worst ; and sometimes openly, and always virtually, communicates this to the patient. The non-vaccinated case paralyzes his superstitious mind ; his hope is paralytic ; and as hope is the spring of all skill and resource, medical art dies here, overlays the case with the black shadow of despair, and contributes   24   Vaccination Tracts.   markedly to kill the patient. These results are incon- testable operations of the human mind, and its actions on the persons of the doctor and the patient. Moreover, an imperceptible movement of the mind that patients ought not to get better unless they have been vaccinated, is inevitable - a condition that saps generous practice, and infects the patient with new fear.  The case is intensified in the smallpox hospitals, into which sufferers have been medically and socially rejected by compulsion. They are caverns of despair for the unvaccinated. The patients hear and feel the inquisition of their persons to discover whether they have been vaccinated or not. They hear the medical doom for non-vaccination. The mind of death sits upon them. The "unvaccinated" dead (who have too often been vaccinated) are carried out past them. The usualness of death catches them. The smell of death, mixed with that of diseased life, weighs them down. They are schooled by all sights and sounds to wait for death, and to know that in their case it is emphatically secundum artem. " England," represented by the Local Govern- ment Board, " expects every" unvaccinated "man to do his duty" by dying.  All this comes of vaccination. Were it discarded, the treatment of smallpox might begin, because the medical mind would be free to entertain it. The mind of the patient also would be rid of false fears, and that he had not been vaccinated would be life and hope to him. The Hydrastis Canadensis applied freely to his body would cancel infection, and every case might be treated at home ; thereby rendering the cowardly horror of re- moving sick and often dying people to hospital obviously groundless. And family shame and medical shame would be avoided.  Under these circumstances there should be a Parlia- mentary inquiry into the whole medical management of Compulsory Smallpox Hospitals. Are their medical officials locked up to their own routine, which has its   Are Medical Coroners expedient 1 25  without regard to orthodoxy or heterodoxy ? Do they b tve St smallpox is an " opprobrium of ^efccine, and have they any hope of removing that Are they actively inventive or are they palsied oeiore fmlll % Are "their inventions hapless or^ hke the first removal to hospital, destructive ? Do they acknow ledae that the hospital death-rate is greater than the nri* £e ^death-rate? Do they know that home has more EKl fttaSe pest-house has ? Do they know that massing of loathsome sickness is a making of the bed of decfy? It is the duty of Parliament to ask these questions, because Parliament sanctions the compulsory mn udng of the smallpox sick in prisons in which they cTnnot help themselves, and the very conditions of which are against the fair chances of life.  A MEDICAL CORONER INVENTS A NEW KING OF TERRORS TO SIT UPON US.  Official sources of panic also continually add them- selves, fresh outbursts and inventions of anger against parents who dare not submit to have their children polluted. Coroner Hardwicke now holds inquests on unvaccinated children who die of smallpox; and the verdict makes non-vaccination itself into a violent death, the smallpox being left out of the record. Death by non-vaccination, a new spectre in nosology. All real diseases will be pushed off their stools by ghosts if this goes on. Exasperation of tyranny and premeditation of panic here reach a new malice which cannot fail to ex- tend to the smallpox hospitals. If mind acts on body, this thing is freshly murderous, and in its general carry- ing out as counselled by the Lancet, April 20, 1878, it is a capital factory of panic, and a maker of corpses for an   26   Vaccination Tracts.   assiduous coroner to sit upon. Nay more, it leads to inquests on every reported unvaccinated death, and on all who have not been revaccinated. But why should it stop there ? Why should the coroner not sit upon every smallpox death as being presumptively not properly vaccinated ? The tendency is in this direction. Death from imperfect vaccination has as much right to stand in verdicts as Death from non-vaccination. Panic is officially intended here ; the common sense of the people will also see the ignominy of official acts that make smallpox, whether rife or not, into the main figure in the public health, and not indeed smallpox, but non-vaccination. The absurdity is both vast and trivial : as government malice over a nation, it has the sweep of an eagle ; as private malicious passion, it has the buzz and sting of a musquito. A further inhumanity is suggested by the Lancet, that only revaccinated jurymen should be empanneled on these inquests.   THE REGISTRAR-GENERAL'S WEEKLY RETURNS- SUPPRESSED FACTS.  A recent week's return for London was forty-two deaths from smallpox, of whom eighteen were certified as unvaccinated, fourteen as vaccinated ; of the remaining ten nothing was said (see Mr. May's statement, Tract xii. p. 31). Obviously those ten may all have been vaccinated, as well as many of the eighteen certified as unvaccinated ; for the medical rule is that wherever the marks are not visible, and they are invisible in severe and confluent cases which furnish the deaths, the certifi- cate is made, " unvaccinated." At the best the above statistic is a poor support to a universal compulsory law. Moreover, in the two or three preceding weeks, the corresponding figures were suppressed. Is there a secret treaty between the vaccinators and the Registrar-General ? We would not breathe of fraudulent statistics, or fraudulent   Vaccination at war with Sanitation. 2 7  suppression of statistics ; but in such a question, where vaccinators and the people are at war, mere openness is needful to demonstrate honesty ; unless the Government holds the maxim, that all is fair in war.   WITH GOOD HABITS ALL ROUND, EPI- DEMICS WOULD FALL INTO EMPTY AIR, FINDING NO VICTIMS.  The extinction of epidemics of all kinds depends solely upon the improvement of the habits of the people, including in the word habits the nature of their dwelling- houses. Vice, dirt, and wretchedness, massed in wretched habitations, are conditions of low health always, and in certain teledemic states of the atmospheres, of epidemic diseases (see Tract xii. p. 30). Until these sordes are removed, and the lower end of the teledeme is thereby destroyed, there can be no immunity from such visita- tions. And if you could by any method, say vaccination, completely suppress one kind of disease, say smallpox, the interior explosion of the dynamic smallpox upon the social body of the place must be more terrible than the outward manifestation would have been. Every medical man knows this of a single human body ; few know it of a community ; yet it is true also in the latter case. Therefore the more you hold that vaccination suppresses smallpox, the more - the foul conditions of smallpox remaining - is the process to be dreaded and abandoned. It is stopping the muzzle of a teledeme, a loaded epidemic gun, which will be fired by human vices whether or no : it shoots to no aim, but bursts in the possessor's hand.  Now is it not obvious that this panacea, vaccination, so rooted in men's minds, falsely teaches that there is another way of health than the narrow road of virtue, thrift, industry, cleanliness, and comfort, with their inevi- table surroundings, space, warmth, pure water, light, and fresh air ? Is it not obvious that this places orthodox   28   Vaccination Tracts.   medicine, with all its imperfections and uncertainties, at the centre, where a good life should be at the centre, with if possible Clergy to uphold it, and where Charitv presiding in engineering, should be the immediate minister of new dwellings, for the deserving of all classes who need them. For this great theme we have no space But we see that if the medical cloud were cleared away that now obscures the true sunshine which man should receive from his Maker, the helps, circumstances, and conditions of virtuous lives would be more readily provided by great capitalists for the poor; and the places of epidemics whenever they occurred, would be instant points of sanitary attack, where charity would become incarnate, and redemption begin as in a new Judcea. Whereas at present these are the very places into which, by the vaccinator's theory, fresh blood-pollu- tion is poured, and its untenable salvation practised. This is confluent smallpox on the face of charity itself. It involves a whole mind and heart at war with sanitary deeds.   DISPROOF OF THE CONNECTION BETWEEN VACCINATION AND DECREASE OF  smallpox .  Herr Kolb, an eminent German statistician, who com- menced his study of this subject, not as an anti-vaccinator, but as a critic of the statistics presented to him by pro- vaccinators, says, in a recent pamphlet on the vaccination question : -  •• When the disappearance of epidemic smallpox about the time of the introduction of vaccination is brought under notice, we observe the gradual diminution of the destructive power of the earlier period, and a more restricted range in the latter outbreaks. This was immediately taken as a proof of the infallibility of the new dogma ; a mystical theory, deprived of all scientific basis, was received with faith ; and the dogma of lifelong   Vaccination acts before it exists.   29   protection was justified and proved by the experience of two important and eventful years ! Yet an unbiased and intelligent criticism cannot avoid perceiving that it is impossible that the disappearance of the epidemic  smallpox  at that early period can have been due to the newly introduced panacea. Smallpox was already on the de- cline in proportion as inoculation became less general ! And in 1802 there were in all Germany not more than 300,000 vaccinated persons in a population of 30,000,000, whilst in England in 1807, according to a report of the College of Physicians, about i-h per cent., or a little more than 164,000, were protected. Allowing that this minority were rejoicing in their absolute and lifelong protection, how came it to pass that the same immunity was granted to the remaining millions of unvaccinated people ? It is clear that while so few were vaccinated, the cowpox could not have formed the only possible safeguard against the spread of infection. Very striking is the experience of Sweden. In 1800 the smallpox mortality was 51 in 10,000 of population. In 1801 the number of vaccinated was only 8000, yet the mortality fell to 24. In 1802 it fell to 7. But instead of drawing the very natural con- clusion that smallpox was on the decline, the newly vacci- nated 8000 were credited with spreading their salvation over the remaining 2,500,000 of inhabitants ! And these are vaccination statistics ! "  This valuable paper appears in Social Notes, April 20, 1878, and is furnished by Mr. and Mrs. Hume-Rothery.   "When the public sees a doctrine - which has been exhibited to them as certain, established, positive, and claiming universal acceptance - proved to be faulty in its very foundations, or discovered to be wilful and despotic in its essential and chief tendencies, many lose faith in science."- Page 41. " The Freedom of Science in the Modern State" By Rudolf Virchow, M.D., Professor in the University and Member of the Academy of Sciences of Berlin. 1878.   3°   Vaccination Tracts.   DR. MASON GOOD.  Here follow a few extracts from "The Study of Medicine " of this eminent physician : -  "The observation of Professor Thomson is . . worthy of attention. 'I have not been able,' says he, ' to discover, after the most minute attention, that any difference of effect whatever in the modifying power of vaccination had depended upon the skill of the operator, or upon his peculiar mode of performing the operation.'"  " At the era of the introduction of vaccination, it so happened that no great smallpox epidemic existed, and there was consequently little or no atmospheric contagion to communicate the disease in the most effective mode. As soon, however, as the variolous contagion began to prevail epidemically, it was found, not that vaccination had lost its power, but that it never possessed more than a relative influence over smallpox."  " Though the action of cowpox on the human body renders it very nearly, if not altogether, unsusceptible of inoculated smallpox, it does not extinguish its suscepti- bility of smallpox through the medium of atmospheric contagion, particularly when the disease prevails exten- sively as an epidemic."  " It is often peculiarly difficult, sometimes unconquer- ably so, to distinguish, by the superficial appearance, the nature of the fever, or even the mark that remains on the skin afterwards, chicken-pox from smallpox, and especially . . . that modification of smallpox which is so apt to follow vaccinia or cowpox, where the latter has only given the constitution a check, and not an utter exemp- tion."  "The matter of smallpox is capable of reproducing smallpox by inoculation. It continues true to its own specific character, and possesses this power to infinity."  Speaking of the plague, he quotes from Dion Cassius : " Many died in another way, not only at Rome, but over nearly the whole empire, through the practice of miscreants,   Dr. Mason Good.   3i   who, by means of small poisoned needles, communicated, on being paid for it, the horrid infection so extensively, that no computation could be made of the numbers that perished." We might suppose that Dion Cassius was taking the portrait of the modern vaccinators.  Here next are Dr. Mason Good's opinions on the thoroughness of penetration of variola into the human system ; answering to and attesting what Dr. Hoeber says of the durchseuchung or thorough-diseasing which vaccination does for children.  "It is wonderful to observe how completely this influence extends through every part of the system, often indeed without any disturbance whatever, upon a deposit of the minutest particle of variolous contagion under the cuticle ... a full change has been operated on the entire frame, though the only pustule has been that excited at the puncture." He is here speaking of variolous inoculation ; and the public now knows that nearly all vaccination is that, and nothing else.  " Whatever be the way " [in which the variolous influ- ence is communicated] "it enables us to be less surprised at the mode by which family taints, as gout, scrofula, and phthisis, are transmitted from generation to genera- tion." This is a forecast of the modern knowledge, that these very diseases, and others, are communicated to- gether with variola to the vaccinated.  He quotes Professor Frank, whose work is dated Mannheim, 1792. "No one," says Frank, " can be more healthy than healthy. And whose prepares himself for a disease which is to come, often delivers himself over to it hand-bound, and is carried in before an absent and not properly known enemy, with the most irrelevant helps against it." Professor Frank has here sketched the exact position of vaccination to smallpox.  " The deaths from smallpox, since the introduction of inoculation, have increased in consequence of the more extensive diffusion of variolous contagion in the propor- tion of fourteen or fifteen upon every hundred. The   32 Vaccination Tracts.  bills of mortality . . <r[ ve "_  Exactly the same thino- I %." V ' J" 101 " 6 than t] "s." and recorded Sffi^ f ° U ?, d 1° be the tality; the death Tfrom Sol s^^ 8 ° f Mor! of compulsory variola-v^  sequence of the more extend Hff, ln C01> contagion;" and increased 1 ST ° n ° f Vario,ous  Dr WsTabbSS re* 10 " 8 in So far Dr. Mason Good. ' A  One more extract from Dr. Gregory " TV t"  Sff* ft 0 ' " havi "S - ccnsSy before o eyes, at the same time that it fulfils Dr. Gresrorv's other condition, of keeping smallpox continually ^ The Zl= 7 ,, mVerSaI (tm) rol (tm)eine inoculation. It pro! duces smallpox to produce compulsion to produce Ute  a a nd d compleL ma " POX - ^ " hed of (tm)' " P'<"   2</. fffr//; is. 6d. per dozen ; \2s. per 100.   VACCINATION TRACTS   HISTORICAL AND CRITICAL SUMMARY IN THREE PARTS   PART III.  Pro Aris et Focis.  The Religious Nature and Political Necessity of the Vaccination War.   LONDON  WILLIAM YOUNG, 8 NEELD TERRACE HARROW ROAD 187S  [No. 14.]   VACCINATION THE LARGEST QUESTION OF  THE DAY.  The "vaccination question" has lately risen to the dignity of " the anti-vaccination agitation." In time it will be a factor in the politics of many boroughs in the kingdom. One town has been polled upon it, and uni- versal suffrage there decides against vaccination. If all the fathers and mothers in the large towns were to vote, the majority would neither be in favour of compulsion nor of vaccination.  Those who have not considered the subject are fain to think that vaccination is among the smallest ques- tions that can interest man or woman. Its punctures are done in a minute, and seem of small size and moment. Generally nothing is heard of them subsequently ; and when the operation is over medical silence covers them up. Casualties are denied to be their consequences. Vaccination, mighty in blessings, is thought to be insignificant otherwise, and public reasons against it, especially when pleaded with earnestness and persist- ence, are regarded as smallminded and fanatical. Indian irrigation is a larger theme ; and John Bright, who regards compulsory vaccination as "a gross injustice," lifts up his eloquent hands for India, but stirs no finger to attempt the removal of that injustice from the home country. The question is too small for him.  But is the question small? Grains make mountains by accretion. Individual wrongs everywhere are social wrongs ; as big as society. Can that be a small interest or thing which is done to every baby born into the British Islands ? It is as universal as all British men, women, and children put together ; and if there be a scotch of   Dimensions of Vaccination Tyranny.   3   wrong in it, that wrong is universal. At least it is a universal force exerted upon the nation's life. No other legal force is so general. It is the largest net of compul- sion into which the population is swept by Government power. The question about it is on this head the largest question of the day.  Furthermore, the political question which it involves is also the largest, because it forces every family in the state to a compliance unlike anything else in the domain of politics ; it forces consciences under fine, distraint, and imprisonment to submit to a rite and obey a law outside of civil and religious liberty as hitherto understood : a law dependent upon a medical dogma. Invading the political life of every household, and of every member of each, it raises questions to which other political issues are partial and contracted. For it compels all infants into political subservience. If to compel free men and women to have their houses vaccinated be an infringe- ment of political freedom, then compulsory vaccination is the largest infringement of that freedom ever yet exer- cised.  And it is the largest interference with home and parental love yet compassed by the human mind, and the most substantial. No conscription or forced service in after-life approaches its universality. No domiciliary visit and breaking open of property equals its outrageous intimacy. Every babe must and shall be vaccinated, whatever the experience, or terror, or horror, of the parents. And here lies the substance of the interference, - the vaccination is done into the blood of every baby soon after birth; it alters every baby's blood and body ; and it is the State that supersedes fatherhood and motherhood to do this general act upon little children. There seems enough largeness here to strike all men and all statesmen if they were not overgiven to geographical largeness and alien atrocities far away.  And if conscience is thus universally dealt with and superseded, and if parental love is crushed, religion is   A   Vaccinatio7i Tracts.   wounded also ; for conscientious fathers and mothers are such by religion, and hence vaccination compelled is the largest breach in the common religious life ever yet undertaken. It says to the people, No matter what your religious conviction as to the duty of protecting your offspring from the curse of vaccination, as you con- ceive it, is, no matter what your ideas of purity as the gift of God may be, you must submit to our law. In thus saying and doing it stabs religion in its tenderest flesh.  Nor because the most submit willingly is the question altered. The battles of freedom are always waged by a few, who at first are alone in feeling a slavery, and will not submit to it. Freedom is smitten on the cheek if there is only one freeman whom the State strikes down ; for that one man represents the whole cause at stake, and the future of the people. Therefore the invasion of vaccination may be measured in its largeness by all men, women, and children on the earth, though only twenty men or only one man should stand upright, and though all the other millions should fawn in panic or walk in subservience to the vaccinator's lancet.  Thus vaccination, by State expansion, is the largest question of the day. Disastrously mighty in itself, it owns that inherent smallness which contemptible things always have ; and this smallness its defenders have attempted to transfer to the immense and noble question of getting rid of the evil. Among the other charges against it is this, that it has made the dirtiest operation practised upon little children into a leading question for senates and electors, and will waste the world's time yet perhaps for years, while precious issues for good and peace remain unpleaded and ignored. For, as has well been said, vaccination is the present bramble in the path of progress.  These general remarks are made because it is im- portant to discriminate between a small question and a contemptible evil. The evil generally gets in by looking   Dimensions of Vaccination Tyranny.   5   like nothing, and first hides, and then intrenches itself, in a pretext of smallness, and thus attempts to render contemptible the opposition against it, arising from the still small voice of God in the conscience. So the question of riddance is indeed mighty and difficult though the first seed of the evil be wickedly small.  Moreover, compulsory vaccination if unrepealed is a gate by which tyranny after tyranny will enter the sanctuaries and sanctities of domestic life. It is the first stage of a Medical Protectorate which, sitting side by side with the folly of ministers in the State, will reach down fresh arms into every home, to meddle and to maim. The anti- vaccinators are the advance-guard of right, conscience, and love against this imminent usurpation. They stand against lawless law. They will have no unverifiable and, above all, filthy science, and there is plenty of such, as a master. They demand medical service if they want it apart from medical domination. They insist upon the rearing of their own children with their own blood in them. They take their religious perceptions from God, and will not allow them to be mocked by the Bench. And they pray God to help them, and petition Parliament to respect their right-mindedness, and to let them have their own children again, and henceforth undefiled.   THE FIBRES OF VACCINATION TYRANNY ARE GROWING.  The recent action of a coroner in holding special inquests on unvaccinated infants, and registering Death by Non- Vaccination, is an instance and an evidence of the pervasive tyranny which already begins to flow from laws compelling submission to a medical dogma. This tyranny expands the coroner's office beyond the borders of law, for his true function is to investigate violent and suspicious deaths, and until this day no one has dared   6   Vaccination Tracts.   to say that death by smallpox is a suspicious death, for it is the plainest of natural deaths. It makes him the judge of a supposed preventive of smallpox, and the vindictive enemy of those who do not agree with his opinion. It makes him the self-constituted whip of the vaccination laws, whose functionary he is not. It urges him to force the horrid paraphernalia of his Court into the houses of the bereaved poor, whose naked sorrows he scourges from his Bench. It makes him into the most unfeeling of mean tyrants ; not an English official to see that death is honest, but a hyaena grubbing for offal of fees at the mouth of the grave. And this seed of tyranny is capable of abundant fructi- fication. At the rate at which medical power is travelling, with atheistic materialism for its locomotive, an acute coroner may plan down base treatments for many diseases, and hold inquests on all who die out of his prescriptions. He may have new verdicts in his budget - death by non-cutting, non-bleeding, non-drugging, and non-poisoning. He may adjudge that women with tumours who do not submit to ovariotomy are suicides in a degree, and give the verdict, non-ovariotomy. He may bring a crop of deaths under a verdict of non- orthodoxy, and profitably make the common issues of dis- ease into coroner's carrion. There are numerous surgeons who will applaud him here. He has as much right to do this as to take smallpox under any circumstances out of the class of natural death. And if he is allowed the first outrage he is sure to extend it. Therefore in these days of scientific centralization, when the medical men hope to rule the country, and to herd us all into their pen, let us not suppose that consequences which appear ludicrous or horrible will not be coolly adopted, and carried out by the Government and the Parliament, unless we fight them in their principles and destroy them there.   The Lancet, April 20, 1878, applauds Dr. Hardwicke   The Tyranny infects and spreads.   7   for following in the footsteps of his predecessor, Dr. Lankester, in holding inquests over cases of unvaccinated children dying of smallpox. Now this medical coroner, more unscrupulous than even him of Liverpool (see Tract i, p. 4), refused to hold inquests on children killed by vaccination ; and in the case of Mr. Emery's child, on whom an inquest was held, July 19, 1869, the jury having returned a verdict of " died from erysipelas, caused by vaccination," the coroner falsified the verdict by returning " death from misadventure ! " The follow- ing are the facts of one case : - The infant daughter of Mr. Moyes, 3 Modena Terrace, Kensal Town, aged four months, had erysipelas for eleven days following vacci- nation, ending in death, after great suffering, on Jan. 6, 1872. Dr. Lankester was appealed to both privately and by public requisition numerously signed to hold an inquest, but refused to do so on the ground that it was not necessary. Not only did he refuse an inquest, but as it was requisite that a certificate of death should be obtained before the body could be buried, and Dr. Pearce, the medical man last in attendance, having refused to grant one unless an inquest was held, the coroner, in order to suppress facts damnatory of vacci- nation, authorized Dr. Watts, who had not seen the child for six days before death, and consequently could not have known the cause of death, to give a certificate. Here a difficulty arose, but Dr. Lankester was equal to the occasion. The registrar of deaths for the district had been cautioned against receiving a certificate of the cause of death from any other than the medical man last in attendance, and he declined to accept the certificate of Dr. Watts unless Dr. Lankester authorized him to do so. This Dr. Lankester did. Of consequence this vaccination-murder is not recorded in the returns of the Registrar-General.  The late coroner trampled on the facts of this case, and laughed at the public conscience echoing the anguish of the parents, outraged the medical man in   s   Vaccination Tracts.   attendance, endorsed a surreptitious certificate, and set aside the function of the registrar of deaths, corrupt- ing the general return, and in his private passion for vaccination allowed burial of a presumably violent death to take place with refusal of inquest, violating his office as a safeguard against concealment of murder and manslaughter. These are reasons which dissuade Dr. Hardwicke from following the [advice of the Lancet and adopting the mantle which held such things in covering Dr. Lankester.   LAY EXTENSIONS OF MEDICAL TYRANNY.  Moreover, the medical tyranny penetrates beyond the medical men ; and dogs in office engender beyond them dogs out of office, who bite the people sorely. In this way tyranny, the most catching of moral and spiritual diseases, overflows and burns like liquid petroleum on fire. It in- fects schoolmasters and schoolmistresses, and they too sit upon little vaccination-thrones, Nebuchadnezzars order- ing the rite to be carried out in their dominions ; and their pride of place is enlisted in the evil. It comes in through Board schools, and revaccination is constantly knocking at their doors and praying for authorized admission : compulsory vaccination being regarded as closely akin to compulsory education, and the light of forced knowledge as congenerous with the matter of smallpox. It takes possession of employers in factories, and coerces the working people. It appeals through the Lancet to masters and mistresses, rousing them to force vaccination upon the kitchen and the servants' hall. It makes in- quisitors and violent men of all these functionaries, each in his own order. In short, if you want to study tyranny in the way in which it hectors at the top, and crawls and creeps to dominion . and the fresh delightful lust of it through the avenues of society, you can have no better field for the facts than vaccination supplies. The greatest   The People and the Vaccination Laws.   9   of constitutional diseases, there is not ultimately a relation of life, big or small, to which each separate scientific tyranny does not reach ; until the social man is corrupt with it ; his whole head sick and his whole heart faint.  " Deliver me, O Lord, from the evil man : preserve me from the violent man ;  " Which imagine mischiefs in their heart : continually are they gathered together for war.  " They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent : adders' poison is under their lips.  " Keep me, O Lord, from the hands of the wicked ; preserve me from the violent man, who have purposed to overthrow my goings.  " The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords : they have spread a net by the wayside ; they have set gins for me.  " I said unto the Lord, Thou art my God : hear the voice of my supplications, O Lord " (Ps. cxl. 1-6).   THE PEOPLE AND THE VACCINATION LAWS.  " Why Little Children Die: " a Lecture by H. H. Vernon, M.D., Medical Officer of Health, Sotithport.  " The working classes are, if. they so will it, masters of the situation in regard to sanitary matters.' . . . Every first day of November you are not only a power, but you are the power whose will is irresistible. . . . You are the real masters. . . . You can utterly rout and abolish the whole body . . . who are the vampires of town life. . . . Who will presume to say that the lives of 6000 innocents are nothing in the sight of God, nothing to the mothers who bear them, nothing to the fathers who gladly toil for them, and nothing to the nation which possesses them. ... I like to begin as near the be- ginning as possible, because unless one does so one doesn't really bottom a subject. And I should begin by   to   Vaccination Tracts.   asking a question, ' Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?' . . . 1300 children were returned openly in 1871 as dying of [a] disease of which it is a shame even to speak. What the real number is will probably never be known, but that it reaches shocking dimensions is well known to every medical practitioner in large towns.  " Probably the great bulk of the infants (25,000 to 26,000) dying of what ... is called in the certificates ' atrophy,' ' debility,' or ' tabes mesenterica,' and the 9500 who are returned as prematurely born, and not a few of those returned in other and equally vague ways, really were victims of a disease which ought not to exist at all," namely, the venereal disease. [Query - If it is so easy for medical returns to cover up so vast a shame of venereal disease, is it not more easy for a whole inter- ested profession to cover up even from themselves the similar disgraces of vaccination ?] " Imperial legislation, like local legislation, is now under the control of the people, using the word in its widest sense. ... If the working classes . . . are determined that noxious trades shall be so regulated as to reduce their evil influences . . . to a minimum, there is no power in this realm that can say them nay. ... It is remarkable how much more numerous the deaths from smallpox are during the first year of life than in any subsequent year. . . . One-eighth of all the deaths from smallpox occur during the first year." That is to say, during the year when other dis- eases are equally fatal, and during the year of universal vaccination. " If the intelligent working people . . . would study the Registrar-General's Report . . . they would speedily recognize how swiftly and surely the in- fraction of a physical law is followed by the penalty it always exacts sooner or later." The inoculation of a baby with variola- vaccine is such an infraction of a physical law; for it is a plain law that a baby that has no disease should not have one given to it. " It is a pity that the vaccination question has fallen so much into the hands   The People and the Vaccination Laws. 1 1  of those who have only a theoretical acquaintance with the subject. I say this advisedly, because there is really no vaccination question among the members of the me- dical profession." Dr. Vernon surely mistakes : con- sidering the admission on all hands of the evils of vaccination, and the proposal to sweep it away in favour of a new plan of vaccination from the heifer, a proposal which shows a question most pressing, he can hardly be so uninformed as to mean what he here says. We would rather put it, that among the most narrow and bigoted medical men there is no question of vaccination, but that all the better men are sorely tried about it. The facts generally, and Dr. Vernon's own pamphlet, show how much they are exercised. " In 1870-2 there was an epidemic of smallpox in London . . . 14,808 patients were treated in the hospitals of the Metropolitan Asylum District. 11,174 cases occurred among vaccinated per- sons, and 3634 among unvaccinated persons." Who are the vouchers here ? Are they impartial, or are they of those who are fixed in vaccination ? Do they adopt the rule of returning as unvaccinated all on whom " the marks" cannot be seen ? The statistic, which gives abso- lutely to a unit what the Registrar-General can never give similarly - for his returns usually publish about one-third or one-fourth of the whole number as indeterminable, - is on the face of it an exact fabrication. It is impossible that what private medical men, knowing families, cannot arrive at approximately, should be attained in large hospitals where the patients are unknown, and the worst cases are massed. The statistic is false. The rest falls to the ground with it. "As there were nineteen times as many vaccinated as unvaccinated persons ... in Lon- don, there ought to have been, if it is true that  vaccination tion does not protect from smallpox at all, nineteen times as many cases of smallpox among vaccinated persons as there were among unvaccinated. The 3634 cases of smallpox among unvaccinated persons ought to have been matched by 69,046, simply because the one class   12   Vaccination Tracts.   is nineteen times as numerous as the other. . . . Only 11,174 cases of vaccinated persons turned up, i.e. only one-sixth of the proper proportion." The first statistic being spurious, these numbers are spurious also. But they carry the percentage swindle equally well for the vac- cinators whether they are correct or not. This was exposed in Tract 13, as follows: - "Let there be a country in which there are 33,000,000 people vaccinated, and one person unvaccinated. A considerable death-rate takes place, no matter how many. The unvaccinated one dies. One out of one is ten out of ten, a million out of a million, and so forth : it is 100 per cent. ; it is all." The result is, that if this unvaccinated Pan, this All dies, his unlamented decease would require to balance it the death of all the smallpox cases throughout the country. Dr. Vernon draws another arithmetical conclusion still, a further lesson in figures from the vaccination Cocker. He says on the above : " It follows, then, that six times as many unvaccinated as vaccinated were attacked." This is a challenge to the multiplication table. The figures are 11,174 cases vaccinated, 3634 unvaccinated, and therefore 11,174x6 = 67,044 = 3634; an honour which never happened to 3634 before, unless it were bestowed by a conjuror or a cardsharper. " These are the current vaccination statistics " {Kolb. See also Note at the end).  But does it not occur to ask whether the vaccinated and unvaccinated are not really two distinct species of the genus homo for honest medical consideration? Whether, considering that the unvaccinated are the poor and neglected and miserable in a sense in which the vaccinated are not, the causes of all death, not of  smallpox  alone, are powerful among them ; and that these will account for any superior mortality under which they labour ? If this be so, the account of them cannot be gathered by partial hands rolling them about in chime- rical cyphers, but in house-to-house and patient-to-patient visitation, to ascertain what the real substance of each several death means. This is the only honest way to go   The People and the Vaccination Laws. 13  about the settlement of this part of the claims of  vaccination tion. So far as it has been essayed by Counsellor Pickering and Mr. Hume-Rothery, vaccination has utterly broken down before it, and those of its figures which were not audacious conjuring, but seemed to be attached to the facts, have been cancelled as inventions case by case. The fact for Dr. Vernon to learn is, that one, that each unit of flesh and blood, in such circumstances is not a hundred per cent., but an isolated person who has no relation to numbers, being by his very nature apart ; and to be considered as a separate problem, or not considered at all. It is indeed an onerous undertaking to discover why each separate victim of smallpox dies, the causes and circumstances, but the vaccinators force it upon themselves, and it is essential now to their existence, though it be a fool's quest.  " The net result," Dr. Vernon continues, " is that you are six times as likely to have smallpox if you are not vaccinated as you are if you are vaccinated ; and four and a half times as likely to die when you do get it ; or, in other words, you are twenty-seven times safer vaccinated than unvaccinated." From all the known history of smallpox it is thousands to one to begin with that any given member of the community will take it. That is a considerable immunity apart from vaccination, and not therefore multipliable by twenty-seven. From the facts known now, nearly every one has smallpox matter inserted into the blood in vaccination. (See Tract 12.) But the Dr. proffers us new and peculiar immunities. The foundation figures he uses are baseless, as we have shown above. He also performs a singular multiplication of two incommensurates, as of a bushel of potatoes with a sack of coals: he multiplies likelihood to catch smallpox=6, with likelihood to die of it = 4* ; and the result is- 27 ; but 27 whats? Twenty-seven safeties; an armour of safety in 2 7 plates : a few death-proof, and more  smallpox -proof. Whereas the unvaccinated man in compari- son has no plate armour, but only his unpolluted skin.   14   Vaccination Tracts.   "Apply these data to the 3161 infants who died of smallpox in 187 1, and you will find that 3000 of them were victims to negligence or perversity. The odd 161 were rather more than the debt due to the Destroyer under an average excellence of vaccination." Only there are no data to hand, and nothing to show that 3000 died of negligence or perversity : it is baseless assertion piled on baseless assumption. And then the odd 161 who Avere due to the Destroyer after vaccination had bought that old medical gentleman out, - a kind of ground rent which he retained, - how can they be certified as the quit- tance when out of 11,174 vaccinated persons only 1135 died. That complacent " only" looks like another agree- ment in the background, in which 316 infants, ten per cent., is the price.  We make these comments on an able pamphlet, faulty only on the subject of vaccination; but on matters appertaining to the health and wellbeing of the working classes, full of wise suggestions and generous sympathies, and excellent in its political teaching. Some of the citations we have made are so put as to carry the opposite sense to that intended by the author. We do not garble his valuable words, but apply them in our own sense. He does not see the medical beam in his own eye, while he clearly discerns the beam in the eye of the people: he does not see that blood-poisoning is "a noxious trade," which should not be "regulated," but forbidden. And while inveighing against drunkenness and debauchery, and their deplorable consequences and heredities, he has not yet thought that vaccination, by scrofulous and venereal infusioa into the blood of child- hood, weakens and irritates the innermost parts of the body, and the brain of the mind, makes men and women not themselves before the temptations of life, and gives •drink and lust an easier triumph. Vaccination is one undoubted slope to- the gin-shop and the brothel.   Vaccination and Smallpox in Iceland. 15  VACCINATION AND SMALLPOX IN ICELAND.  When, in 1000 a.d., Christianity was first introduced at the General Assembly (Althing) into Iceland, the heathen party credited to the wrath of their gods a volcanic eruption which broke out on a neighbouring farm. Snorri, the great Icelandic historian, being present, asked " what it was that made the gods angry when the older lava was on fire." For it clearly was not Christianity then. He carried the day against the heathen gods by this common-sense question, and Christianity became the law of the land. The anecdote was told to the writer in 1866 by Dr. Hjaltahn, Medical Inspector of Iceland, when they both stood on Logberg, the Lawrock, where the Althing was held and the event occurred.  It is a case of ante hoc pricking the windbag of post hoc, and a fortiori, of propter hoc; displacing two very in- veterate logical Claimants.  Somewhat parallel with this history is the statement put forward by Mr. T. W. Evans in the House of Com- mons, that vaccination has extinguished smallpox in Iceland because there has been no case for the last thirty years. Now if it can be shown that immunity from smallpox for thirty years has been frequently enjoyed by Iceland before the god Vaccination existed, then the argument for vaccination derived from that immunity falls to the ground. As the old lava and the new stream were due to the same natural causes, un- influenced by the introduction of Christianity, so the old immunity from smallpox and the new are accounted for by the same current causes without resort to the hypothesis of vaccination.  The facts have been succinctly put together by Mrs. Hume-Rothery in the National Anti- Compulsory Vacci- nation Reporter, May 1, 1878, and are as follow : -  " Iceland has for many centuries been a peculiar theatre of epidemics of other diseases as well as small   i6   Vaccination Tracts.   pox, which sweep away large numbers of the people ; the population then recovering numerically with surprising rapidity. These severe epidemics are naturally followed by periods of immunity from epidemic disease. Dr. Wilkinson extracts for us from P. A. Schleisner's medico- historical work, ' Iceland from the point of view of Medical Science,' published at Copenhagen in 1849, the following list of the smallpox epidemics which have desolated Iceland since the first half of the fourteenth century. This is the more valuable as it is doubtful whether any such record from 1306 to 1846 be extant for any other country : -  SMALLPOX EPIDEMICS IN ICELAND.  1347 - A great epidemic. 1380- Ditto.  1430 - Terrible epidemic - 8000 deaths. 15 1 1 - A great epidemic.  ISS5- D i"°- 1574 - Ditto.  1580 - A kind of variolous disease.  1590 - Smallpox epidemic,  1 6 16-17 - Ditto by importation.  1632 - Smallpox epidemic.  1636- Ditto.  1655- Ditto.  1658- Ditto.  1 670-1 - Varioloid and Smallpox.  1707-8-9 - A dreadful epidemic by importation - 18,000 died.  1742- A small epidemic from case brought in Dutch vessel.  1762-3 - A mild epidemic. -,785 - A small epidemic - 73 deaths. 1786- Epidemic- 1237 deaths. r787- Epidemic- .113 deaths.  1839-40- Smallpox again brought to Iceland, but pre- vented from spreading by strict quarantine.   Vaccination and Smallpox in Ice/and.   '7   From the above it will be seen, that in the centuries previous to vaccination smallpox was absent from Ice- land for periods quite as long as that which has elapsed since 1840 (when the better sanitary measures that were employed doubtless prevented such a terrible visitation of the disease as those previously on record) ; indeed in some cases for much longer periods. It is calculated that the average period of immunity is about 28 years, but as will be seen by a glance at the above table - from 1347 to 1380 - we have 33 years ; then to 1430 we have 50 years; and then before the next epidemic invasion the extraordinary period of 81 years elapses. The next period from 1511 to 1555 gives us 44 years of immunity from smallpox. Later on, again, from 1670-1 to 1707 we have 36 years, and from 1709 to 1742, 33 years, and from 1787 to 1839 we find an immunity from smallpox of 25 years. Now inasmuch as vaccination could have nothing to do with the absence of smallpox during the earlier part of these 52 years, we see no safe ground on which it can be inferred that the immunity continued after the introduction of vaccination up to the. year 1839 was due to that introduction ; and inasmuch as vaccination most positively could have nothing to do with the longer periods of immunity from smallpox above recorded, periods of 50, of 81, of 44 years, etc., what ground can there be for asserting that the recent immunity from smallpox which has obtained for about 38 years has any connection with vaccination either? And let it be well understood that the author from whose work the above is quoted is himself an implicit, we might say, a blind believer in vaccination, as the following extract shows : " Since 1306 smallpox has been epidemic in Iceland nine- teen times, and has always been brought in either by French, English, Dutch, or Danish ships. In early times it frequently caused a terrible mortality, as in 1707, when 18,000 out of a population of 50,000 perished; and in 1430, when 8000 are said to have died. In later years its violence has diminished in consequence of the intro-  14 B   iS   Vaccination Tracts.   Dr ction of vaccination. In 1785-6-7, its last attack in the eighteenth century, only 1425 persons died" (p. 51). Now in 1785-6-7, vaccination had not yet been introduced even in England, and as the epidemics of 1742 and 1762 are recorded by Schleisner as 'small' and 'mild' respectively, while so early as 1580 one is named as 'a kind of variolous disease,' clearly some mild form, it is abundantly evident that vaccination could have as little to do with the diminution of mortality and virulence in the epidemics, as with the long periods of immunity from smallpox which Iceland has enjoyed. Schleisner, in fact, adopts the common prejudice as to the protective influence of vaccination, while the facts he records expose it as a fallacy. Mr. Evans must therefore look farther afield than even to Iceland for colourable evidence as to the efficacy of vaccination. But now, inasmuch as vaccination is universally, or almost universally, practised in Iceland - no couple can lawfully be married, we are informed by an Icelandic gentleman now resident in Edinburgh, without a vaccination as well as a baptismal certificate - a question may arise in the minds of those who are well aware of the intimate connection between so- called vaccination (in this country really variolation) and the constant prevalence of smallpox, as to how such universal practice of vaccination can subsist with such immunity from smallpox as Iceland has so long enjoyed ; and on this head another passage from the same author enables us to hazard a conjecture. It would appear that the genuine cowpox has not died out in Iceland as it has done in this country ; on the contrary : ' Two epidemics of cowpox among the cows are stated to. have occurred, namely, in 1827 and 1837. In the last epidemic only two milkmaids were infected, but in 1827 the disease was taken by many persons. ... It attacked people whether they had been vaccinated or not : and also many who had had natural smallpox " (Schleisner, p. 49). In all pro- bability, therefore, vaccination, instead of variolation, still prevails in Iceland; and however objectionable on sanitary   Medical and Human Perception at War. 1 9  and physiological grounds, it is not nearly so likely to result as it does here in absolute smallpox. But this last piece of information tells heavily against the vaccination delu- sion. If neither smallpox nor vaccination {i.e. inocula- tion with cowpock) can protect from cowpock itself, how is it to be credited that vaccination (or cowpock inoculation) should protect from smallpox ? It seems a pity that when Mr. Evans was on the subject of Iceland he should not have carried his investigations a little further than he would appear to have done ; but we owe him thanks for directing our attention to so suggestive and instructive a field of research."  This record from Iceland is interesting, as a cardinal instance of the manner in which the vaccination super- stition overshadows honest minds, and as showing further that the grounds of vaccination are dissipated whenever they are set against the facts of a particular case.  We commend this section to the Editors of PjoSolfur, and request them to supply any fresh particulars on the subject of Smallpox and Vaccination in Iceland.   MEDICAL AND HUMAN PERCEPTION DIEFERENT.  Medical men are for the most part profoundly unable to comprehend the spring and source of the aversion which mothers especially feel for vaccination. The root of the feeling undoubtedly is, that vaccination tampers with the life of their infants, and whether manifest evil comes of it or not, the mother's heart is revolted at the practice. We speak of course of anti-vaccinators, and not of those who have destroyed their maternal instincts and put medical authority over parental love. That love, when undefiled, yearns to keep its offspring pure, and out of this yearning comes forth in every simple mind a perception, an under- standing, and an eyesight, that vaccination on this   20   Vaccination Iracts.   ground alone is essentially impure, defiling, and abomin- able, a cursed thing to submit to.  The current medical man feels nothing of the kind, and cannot conceive what the feeling means. He, and the Law which he has made, brush the mother aside as if she were the most flimsy of considerations ; and the giving up her heart's life and innermost convictions is represented to her as an "inconvenience" (Mellor). Orthodox Medicine says the child is his, and the real mother says it is hers ; and he prevails to have it divided into two parts, a State baby to be vaccinated, and the remainder to be left for her breast. His deadness to her point of view is official and amazing. He publishes plates of his man " lymph " or " calf lymph," showing infants' arms with blots of corruption, which to him are beautiful, and to her horrible. Jenner likened such to " a pearl on a roseleaf." Her heart says, What seal of your own foulness have you set on my baby? His routine says, The child is successfully vaccinated. His plates, if he knew it, are as damning as his confrere the vivisector's plates of the exposed entrails of living dogs and cats. But both these parties publish the plates, and the State, dead in sin, and deprived of percep- tion, endorses them. The mother in the thoughts of her heart counts them as miscreants. No lewd slaver about protection from smallpox in the future bribes her virtue ; if her mother's heart is sound she can no more give up her child's person than her own.  What art and science can long bear the strain of this difference of perception; of this keenness on one side, and its total absence on the other ? As motherhood begins to know its proper power, lightning in act may come out of it of which Sclater-Boothism little dreams. The owners of those pearls called little children cannot come face to face with parliamentary medical swinehood, and the swine get the better. "Suffer little children to come unto Me " is in them, filling them with new perceptions, shudderings, and determinations ; for in the last resort,   Medical and Human Perception at War. 2 1  God is hard by : never nearer than when a Parliament is on the side of hardness, and childhood in its mother's arms is the intended victim over which it bends.  To the vaccinators all this is the merest bosh : they do not understand one word of it. Humane perception, which is the very fire and light of healing, is deadened all round. They, in professional fanaticism, are astonished at what they call the fanaticism of fathers and mothers. They deny the soundness of all but worldly professional emotions, and look on the State through themselves as the recoiner and reissuer of parental love, which is not legitimate until it includes the love of vaccination.  This is not the place to dwell on the causes of their embrutement. It is of old growth, and all most voluntary. Professionalism and Trades Unionism built into the State, the closure of their minds to all new ideas save material ideas, the rejection of God for opium, the derivation of all light from themselves, the long habit of drugging, the loss of conscience in shows and field-days of surgery ; vivisection built into the State, and become tutor to the lusts of the students ; the power of dealing with fallen women as vessels to be constantly scoured for the orgies of sin, with the immeasurable medical prosti- tution which this involves; and finally vaccination; these, and many other causes accumulating for long ages, have made medicine what it now is, an enemy of the human mind, and especially of those hearts which still look towards heaven as their home, and retain from thence some pure love and undebauched perceptions.  We will here give a typical instance of what medical imperception is, and leave it to the reader's contempla- tion. He will remember that the people spoken of are the vaccinators par eminence, the rulers of medicine on their hospital thrones, who are our great authorities against pestilences and epidemics : -  "A singular silence is maintained by the hospital authorities on the causes of [the] enormous number of cases of pyaemia and erysipelas, as well as of enteric fever.   22   Vaccination Tracts.   It has been attributed to the large number of medical students attached to the schools ; and it is urged that it is most objectionable that the dissecting-rooms should be allowed to remain on the ground-plan of the -hospitals, or even near them during the winter session. At least eighty dead bodies are required for the dissecting-rooms of St. Bartholomew's Hospital alone, and the students using these are allowed to walk the wards during the visits of the surgeons and physicians, as well as assist them with the outdoor patients. Nay, more, it is a common practice in a large London medical school for pupils fresh from the dissecting-rooms to be allowed to attend married women in their confinements, the average age of these young gentlemen possibly not exceeding eighteen years. . . . During the six years that the lying-in wards in King's College Hospital were open the mortality was not less than one in every twenty-three cases. In eleven London workhouses . . . out of 2413 deliveries there was not one death" (William Gilbert, The Contemporary Re-view, March 1878).  "All this is very hard upon the poor. It is safer to stay in the poorest house than to go to the grandest hospital in London ; and as we have seen, the grandest, the most richly endowed, and those which boast the most skilful ssrgeons, are the most dangerous to human X\k" (The Penny Herald of Health, April 1, 1878).  It is not uncharitable to attribute such facts as the above to deadness and lack of humane perception in the heart of medicine.   HOPE SPRINGS UP WHERE THE HEELS OF COMPULSION TREAD.  Whatever may be thought of vaccination, there never was a thing in which compulsion is less judicious for the permanence of the thing itself. Had it been left to private practice, medical men could have persuaded a large part of the community to submit to it without a question, emptying their minds by panic, and then refill-   Compulsion provokes the Downfall of Vaccination. 23  ing them with professional false confidence ; and thus vaccination might have crept about among the people, perhaps for ages. But compulsion meets all the prin- ciples to which tyranny is abhorrent, and rouses them all. It meets the Englishman's castle and his conscience inside it : parental, conjugal, and domestic rights : the right to be pure and unpolluted. These are roused where they would have lain dormant to a merely pro- fessional practice which parents could adopt or reject at will. The consequence of compulsion is, therefore, con- tinual battle, which will increase as Parliament grows more and more stolid, and as the law is more cruelly stringent. This state of things is preferable to com- promise; for it has no end but the destruction of the vaccination laws, to be followed in no long time by laws declaring vaccination a crime.  On one point Parliament misinforms itself. It says that the anti-vaccinators are few in number. So they are in the House of Commons, where not one such dares to speak ; because the medical power in the constituencies would move heaven and earth against them at the next election. Mr. Bright, if he came to the front, and battled against the gross injustice which he admits, would be ousted from Birmingham by the compact medical phalanx. And yet it is true that the working classes, though culpably passive, are almost universally averse to vaccination. A proof is, that Parliament dreads to allow one penalty to suffice for parents objecting to the law, because in that case numbers would pay the penalty, and the plea for the law be weakened. And though fathers may be apathetic, almost all poor mothers are actively hostile to vaccination. The writer sent some of these Tracts to a large village in Cheshire, and was told by the lady who undertook to distribute them that it was useless to attempt to influence the poor families there against vaccination : that they were all confirmed anti- vaccinators already, and carried their babes to the vac- cinator's shambles with horror and detestation.   24   Vaccination Tracts.   There are indeed signs that Parliament is wavering, and this makes the compulsion both more cruel and more intolerable.  A recent writer has said : " There is probably nothing which so excites the loathing of mankind as when the State prosecutes for a faith which it is already beginning to lose. And yet, obviously, that is precisely the time when . . . [this] is most likely to happen. . . . Sup- pose that Pilate and the Romans of his time still believed in the old religion of the little Tiber City, that Jesus had been a native subject of that city, and that the law of the city demanded persecution of all religious convictions hostile to its old faith. What in such circumstances was the 'duty of a man in Pilate's position?' I answer that his duty was (having first cared for the immediate peace of his district) to refuse to obey the law, and to resign his position rather than outrage a principle of conscience, which lies deeper than all social superstructures of either the Church or the State. There are laws which are in- valid because they strike against the basis of all law" (Alex. Taylor Innes, "The Trial of Jesus Christ," The Contemporary Review, Oct. 1877).   "Arbitrariness always embitters the minds of the people, and confuses the true conception of criminality " (Rector P. A. Siljestrdm).   JUSTICE; AND THE LORD CHIEF-JUSTICE OF ENGLAND; HIS WASTE-PAPER BASKET.  Tebb v. Jones.  "Mr. Justice Mellor. - The object of the  vaccination tion Act is to protect the public health, and that object is paramount to the inconvenience [the venereal disease ?] of the individual. I am troubled constantly with   Truth in the Waste-paper Basket.   25   pamphlets directed against the Vaccination Acts, which are described as iniquitous, but I can only carry out the law as it stands.  "The Lord Chief-Justice. - People might spare them- selves the trouble of sending us these things, as they are never read, and only serve as materials for the waste-paper basket " {The Times).  At the same sitting in Banco, the same Lord Chief- Justice said of the conscientious who refuse vaccination for their babes, " Let them go to gaol." In these words he inaugurated a new sweep of tyranny which recalls old persecution and bloody Alva. He fostered into new malignity the Goodlakes, and petty tyrants all over the land. He keeps his own mind comfortable by constant intercourse with his organon of unpalatable truth, his waste-paper basket. " O Justice, what things are done in thy name " by Lord Chief-Justices. " Eyes have they, but they see not; they have ears, but they hear not; noses have they, but they smell not. . . . They that make them are like unto them ; so is every one that trusteth in them." The people of England are the real makers of them.   THE DAIL Y NE WS.  The anti-vaccinators have against them the strength of the daily press of London, and also a conspiracy of silence, which prevents the other side from being heard. Conspicuous amongst the journals which suffocate the truths against vaccination is the Daily News, on this point, as well as on vivisection, which it favours, an unblushing organ of materialism. Yet the Daily News knows the truth. Thus, June 21, 1877, speaking of the confessional in the Church of England, it denounces those " who attempt to use against vice a weapon more dangerous than vice itself." And continues : " Even if all natural purity were not shocked . . . even if morality   26   Vaccination Tracts.   were not utterly sapped ... the interference with essential human relations would be equally intolerable. The ap- pearance of a stranger as the supreme authority between father and child, husband and wife, is absolutely unendur- able. ... The physical repugnance which such conduct excites is likely, in certain circumstances, to find surpris- ingly energetic expression."   VACCINATION CURSES THE MOTHER'S WOMB.  Compulsory vaccination is the bloodhound of the childbearing woman and of the nursing mother, and adds a fresh and an unnatural woe to the pangs of labour. It is the most unmanly invention of the abyss where tyranny is at home. In Norway, at lambing time, the ravens sit on the parturient sheep, waiting in its wool till the lamb is born, when they dig its eyes out with their beaks. Compulsory vaccination is such a raven, sitting comfortably upon the profitable wool of the parturient mother, that is to say, upon those mothers who are anti- vac- cinators from religion, from conscience, from perception, and from conviction. Over such in the months of pregnancy vaccination hovers. Anxiety and indignation are in the shadow of its wings. In the labour pains the doctor, who is also the vaccination informer, and will be the compulsory vaccinator - the " baby-sticker " - assists. And the time of suckling the pure babe is chosen for its pollution, and the mother's milk, susceptible to every emotion, and more susceptible the more she knows of impending ill, is blighted by the view of the poisoned lancet to which every day brings her child nearer. If this is not true, then there are no emotions which play especially upon pregnancy, which alter natural labour, and which affect the milk in the mother's breast. Only in lieu of these feelings the mother may choose the • contemplation of the ruin and imprisonment of the   Memorandum for Schools.   husband and father. Such are the goods which a false medicine through Parliament purveys to religious anti- vaccinators.   R E V AC C I NAT ION. A MEMORANDUM FOR KEEPERS OF SCHOOLS.  It is often asserted among the best-fed and best-housed classes, that vaccination is done on a large scale, and that beyond temporary inconvenience of sore arms no harm comes of it But then in the present insanity about vaccination, no harm that does come has any chance of being attributed to it. Large schools are re- vaccinated, and no subsequent evil is traced to the act. The fact is, observation in this direction is paralyzed. If school-keepers would take account of the mischiefs which undoubtedly occur, and which can be read in the medical and other journals, and gained everywhere by kind inquiry of the poor, such school-keepers would look from these facts to their pupils, and observe deteriora- tions of health consequent upon revaccination. And their medical men, knowing the chronic and working nature of constitutional poisons, could go further, and lead observation through long lines of injured constitu- tions. It may be that the effect is not visible at first, or traceable in the present state of mind to its true cause. But all science and all analogy come in aid here. To put the case in the moral degree : if a large girls' school were_ carefully contaminated by injection of filthiness into its mind, to prepare and forearm it for what is to be met with in the world, and if decorum were heavily en- joined, and the filthiness declared to be a new branch of morals, none of the scholars might take up the lesson at first, or be apparently any the worse for it, or only the worst might manifest it by open symptoms of immorality : and yet the whole school is morally poisoned ; and every virtue in each member of it is weakened, and will have a   28   Vaccination Tracts.   harder battle of life, and a less power of resistance, because of the corruption which has been forced upon it! Now the human body to material poisons put into its blood, is just like the human mind to mental poisons presented to its senses and imagination. You may not see the mischief at once, or for months or years, in either case j but it is there to the third and fourth genera- tion ; and you will know that it is there if you do not see and reason sensually, stupidly, lazily, and interestedly.   THE TWO TERRORS.  From the beginning vaccination has lived upon panic, and medical authority, as the practice widened, and became legalized and compulsory, has assiduously fostered the public terror of smallpox, and driven the people like sheep into the false fold of vaccination. Dr. Gregory saw that "vaccination can only be maintained by having smallpox constantly before our eyes." The terror is fostered by the medical assertion that smallpox is as bad a scourge - save for vaccination - as it ever was ; and by the public knowledge that the treatment of the disease is no better known, or more successful, than in the last century. Hence vaccination is to go on for ever, and wherever there is human life, there vaccination must follow. Hence also the moral necessity of the terror, for without it vaccination would die.  This accounts in a measure for the loss of moral sense involved in poisoning the blood of every infant as it comes into the world ; for in panic, particularly when excited by artifice to the greatest possible degree, people may be led to do anything, and sauve qui pent is the only maxim visible on their shameful backs. It was this ignominious panic which led to inoculation ; in which the people put its head into the bush of smallpox, in order that it might not see the danger, and manfully face it whose pro- pagates panic takes away the qualities of resistance,   The Two Terrors.   29   makes men lose their heads, cancels obedience, skill, and honesty, and works in a place where selfish power and love of lucre have the freest play. Thus under com- pulsory vaccination the people have been reduced to a permanent second childhood, and the vaccinator stills their objection to what he is doing by pointing to the door, and telling them that smallpox is always there, and ready to come in.  But is there not another terror of natural growth, arising out of experience, from the knowledge that vaccination propagates loathsome and destructive diseases, which show themselves at the various periods of life? No one who has been vaccinated can be sure that syphilis or scrofula or cancer or psora has not been im- parted in the virus. As vaccination is more considered as its worthlessness is better known, and its full dangers are apprehended, the knowledge of having undergone it must weigh upon many minds, and constitute a nervous horror not easily shaken off in after life. Many a gentleman or lady, of good descent and pure life, may wonder at symptoms unaccounted for by heredity, and ask if their fathers and mothers may have had them venerealized when they had no will of their own, but were the prey of the compulsory law. This is the other side of " protecting infancy " with which members of Parlia- ment are unacquainted. The time for awakening to it is at hand. The mode of meeting the case and palliat- ing it must be sought : for probably " the third and fourth generation " of many of the vaccinated will still have ruin and decay before them in their own persons : so that the grief of the second panic - a perfectly rational panic, to be held under check by human action - will be greater than the grief of the first.  Therefore one of the first serious studies which the medical profession owes to the injured public consists in investigating the ways and means by which the long-time results of vaccination can be met and mitigated. The implanted maladies are of the most persistent kind, and   3°   Vaccination Tracts.   are indeed artificial constitutional diseases ; hard scientific parasites professionally bred in those who are or maj be innocent of the sins which origirally produce them. A humane field opens here for Mr. Hutchinson, Dr. Brudenell Carter, and others, who have pointed out the marks and signs of vaccine-venereal; they should go a step further, and investigate for cure. Especially the homoeopathic body should be up and doing, and through the wonderful rule of correspondences divined by Hahnemann find similars for the new syphilis, the new scrofula, the new cancer, and the new madness which we owe to Jenner and the medical profession. By this means alone can medicine repent and be forgiven for the immeasurable wrong it has done here to the race of man.   The Right Honourable John Bright is at present the most responsible statesman in regard to the provisions of the Law for carrying out compulsory vaccination. He alone, as an eminent Liberal power, acknowledges the wrongs done under that Law.  The following are his utterances : -  " The Law is monstrous, and ought to be repealed."  Re Tebb. "I think your case one of great hardship, but I fear I can do nothing to help you. These repeated penalties are, in my view, most unjust, and I wish the Law were changed."  And in May 1878 : "I cannot write letters to you on this subject ; I have said what I have to say upon it. I have nothing to add, and nothing to retract. You can- not overcome the unwillingness of Parliament to give you relief. I regret it, but cannot remedy it"  Friend, hast thou tried?   The Liberal Party and Vaccination.   3 1   THE LIBERAL PARTY AND VACCINATION.  He Professor Faivcett.  For a long time past the Liberal party, as it calls itself, has been without a clear raison d'etre or object of exist- ence. The great and real reforms which it found upon its hands fifty years ago have for the most part been enacted. Since then, inasmuch as a party lives on doing, or on the semblance of doing, a number of fancy reforms have been evolved, not out of the interior needs of the nineteenth century, but out of the "inner consciousness" of the Liberal party. Some of these are justifiable thoughts, and may one day become realities ; but what chiefly distinguishes them is that they proclaim "fancy" rights for man and woman, and that these rights lean back upon the reasonings of men, and claim no connection with the old word, and the upper thing, Righteousness. Such are nearly all the excogitations of the Mills, Fawcetts, and other reformers who have banished religion from politics. They portend a reign of philo- sophs and corresponding scientists. They believe that society is made by "thinkers," and that thinkers have thought religion out of the world, and can supply its place out of their own heads. They disbelieve in prayer and God's direction. That  " All Equities from Heaven originate, From Heaven descends the Universal State," -  they disbelieve profoundly. Being very active, and, more- over, self-proselytes and originators, they have communi- cated their state more or less to the whole Liberal party, which derives its daily bread very mainly from their notions. The country has gradually perceived this and grown tired of it ; and hence, excepting in the large towns, the Liberal party is at a discount, and likely to continue so.  In the large towns the Liberal party is steadily diminish- ing, so that equipoise of the representation is imminent   32   Vaccinatiofi Tracts.   there also. As soon as this occurs all the smaller Causes i which the Liberals have neglected because they were* not political stalking horses, will have their time and play with either party, the Conservative or Liberal, which will I aid and abet them. These small Causes now represent : the whole earnestness of the country ; the apparently • greater movements being the public apathy to both . parties used and made to look animate and to roll to and fro by personal ambitions. These small Causes are really public affections ; the grand political moves are private passions. Professor Fawcett calls the private causes, such as anti-vaccination, " hobbies ;" we may designate the public causes embodying fancy rights, as lusts of power embodied in intellectual crotchets. The people's invaded rights, as in vaccination, are rights of ma?! and home taken from him ; the people's " fancy rights," of franchise and the rest, are rights which never have existed, but which pedants materialize out of their own restless nervous systems. We by no means say that some of these ghosts will not be embodied in useful forms of polity, because heaven comes to every mind, even to every thinker, and inseminates good into his thoughts ; and if mankind determines that a pet scheme shall be carried out, heaven makes the best of it, and puts a kind nut inside its otherwise hollow shell. But we do say that the rights of the Liberal party, and it dines and sups off rights, are for the most part the materialized vapours of its own materialistic head. This implies that lack of religion, except in the form of personal meta- : physics, has emptied out the Liberal party, and made it afraid of all revealed righteousness, and of everything that it has not found out for itself, and of all those highest things that, because no man can find them out for himself, are told him authoritatively from above. This amounts to lack of principle from beginning to end and from top to bottom j in a deliberative state like England, to political paralysis from softening of the higher brain into philo- sophical materialism j to " hobbies " mistaken for mathe-   The Liberal Party and Vaccination. 33   matics, and deified ; and in the end to the blindness of complete individual and collective selfishness. And to hardness, yea ossification, of heart against all the private earnestness of poor men and women whose convictions are really the "remains" that are left alive from God Almighty in the commonwealth.  This subject has been powerfully dealt with in The National Anti-compulsory Vaccination Reporter, May 1, 1878, by a daughter of Joseph Hume, a liberal mind who devoted his faculties unflinchingly, not to professional crotchets, but to the good of the people as it was under- stood in his day. Mrs. Hume-Rothery is no mean authority on the present sjate of " liberality " in the British Parliament. We wish we could extract the article entire ; but must be content with an extract, urging readers to procure the journal itself at once. She is dealing with Professor Fawcett, and quotes him thus : -  " ' It seems to me,' says he, ' that there is nothing more certain than this, that if we express ourselves strongly in the House of Commons, if there is a measure to be opposed and we oppose that measure in the name of the people, they have a right to demand from us that we should prove the sincerity of the opinions which we express by having the courage, however small the minority, to record our votes' But, she continues, when it comes to 'the party out of doors' Professor Fawcett appears smitten with a sudden party-blindness, and blames earnest Liberals, and anti-vaccinators by name, for doing the very thing he has just stated should be done in the House of Commons, viz. proving the sincerity of their opinions by recording their votes in accordance with them. An honest elector who will not record his vote for a candidate who is opposed to what he, the elector, regards as a vital question, the vital question of the day, is represented by Professor Fawcett as saying, ' If I cannot get my pet hobby gratified I will assume an attitude of sulk, and will vote for the opponents j ' and as one illustration of this ... he proceeds a little further on : 14 c   34   Vaccination Tracts.   'I ask what is the prospect of the Liberal party in another place, and the answer is, " We could return a Liberal, but there are sixty men who will not vote for him unless he will oppose compulsory vaccination." ' A pet hobby indeed ! Members of the House may possess opinions and be entitled to stand by them, but electors out of doors are only possessed of ' hobbies.' And here, let it be observed, that 1 principle ' . . . appears altogether excluded from the Liberal mind as represented by Professor Fawcett. 'Liberals,' he says, 'are too prone to sacrifice a great cause to their own individual prejudices and individual opinions.' . . . Nor is Pro- fessor Fawcett alone in this. We believe him in this to be a fair type of his party. It chanced, some eighteen months ago, that travelling by rail we fell into conversa- tion with a Liberal baronet and M.P. Presently some- thing was said of principle. ' Oh ! don't talk to me of principle,' our fellow-traveller exclaimed ; ' whenever a man begins to talk to me of principle I have done with him!' . . . Again, the Liberal Bishop of Manchester stated a few years since that ' it was perfectly lamentable to witness an attempt to promulgate d priori principle against vaccination ! ' And in the recent vaccination debate in the House, not one, even of the Liberal mem- bers who spoke in favour of Mr. Pease's Bill, betrayed so much as a gleam of perception that the Compulsory Vaccination Law was opposed to principle, or that principle * was in any way involved in the question. And here we find the cause, the all-sufficient cause, of the disintegration, the 'unsatisfactory position,' of the so-called Liberal party. A Party without Principle is like a body without a soul - dead, decaying, and Offensive to all Enlightened Perception. What 'great cause* or good cause either, we would ask Professor Fawcett, should we, or could we, be forward-  * Mr. Gladstone named principle, but, alas ! he spoke of the principle of compulsory vaccination ! The principle, that is, of oppression, wrong, and robbery.   Professor Fatvcelfs Liberalism.   35   ing by voting for parliamentary candidates who do not know what principle means ? By sacrificing our opinions, which are one with our principles, to do this, we should be promoting the cause of ' unprincipledness,' that is, of parliamentary and national corruption. We regard opinions, which we found on principle alone, as guides to be obeyed and acted up to, not to be sacrificed to the party ambitions of those who call conscientious convic- tions hobbies, while they call themselves Liberals. For let us assure ' Professor Fawcett that no constituency in the kingdom could return a Liberal who was in favour of compulsory vaccination ; even though no anti- vaccination for in the constituency had a vote to give against him. And for this reason : No man, to whatever party he may nominally belong, is or can be a Liberal and be in favour of compulsory vaccination ; and such an one - we say it advisedly - disgraces the name of Liberal if he presumes to bear it. For what, let us ask, is Liberalism ? and what is this Compulsory Vaccination Law? If Liberalism does not involve and mean adherence to the principles of civil and religious liberty - freedom of con- science, which includes freedom of action in all matters of mere opinion, and the preservation of all the sacred natural rights of humanity, including protection of life and property- Liberalism is nothing and means nothing. Liberalism has nothing to do with turning one set of men out of office, or keeping another in ; Liberalism means adherence to Liberal principles, and requires steady opposition to all illiberal and despotic and faith- ful support of all liberal and enlightened measures. And what now is the Compulsory Vaccination Law ? It is a law for compelling parents to violate their conscience by consenting to the performance of an operation on their children, which they regard as unnatural, dangerous, and therefore sinful. It is a law which makes it criminal for an Englishman to keep his children in health. It is a law which invests a medical trades' union with a monopoly of the right cf creating disease in every healthy   36   Vaccination Tracts.   born infant. It is a law which - passed by a professedly Christian legislature, in a professedly Christian country - postulates the blasphemy that the Creator is unable to ' send His creatures into the world except as a ' danger- ous "nuisance ; ' and postulates the infallibility of a certain medical sect, who propound an unclean superstition as ^ the sole means for counteracting the mischievous effects of His handiwork. Such a law as this cuts at the root x not merely of every sentiment of reverence for the God our country professes to worship, but at the root of every > principle of civil and religious liberty, and of common sense itself. It invades the home - once an Englishman's castle - and sets spies upon the very cradle. It makes health a crime and preaches disease as a bless- ing. It legalizes murder by slow torture ; and sows loathsome disease broadcast among those who survive to transmit it to future generations. It stamps freeborn Englishmen as the slaves of medical disease-mongers. It transforms guardians of the poor and justices of the peace into persecutors of their neighbours, abject tools of a medico-materialistic inquisition, which cares nothing for demoralising and degrading parents so long as it can force them to work its wicked will upon their helpless infants."  To this we propound as a pendant the following question : - Why are material rights, such as the right of a parent to keep his child from being blood-poisoned, so much more slowly won than mental rights, such as the right of a Jew to sit in Parliament ; and than spiritual rights, such as the rights of a Dissenter to hold Bible services at home and to worship in his own chapel? There is a providential reason in this, but of that we do not speak : the relative importance of the rights is much here. But what is the human reason ; the motive of men ? There, the relative unimportance of the spiritual rights is the reason why they are first gained. Whether a nun believes this or that is nothing to statesmen, because they themselves believe little or nothing, and will not be   Medical Freedom disallowed by Parliament. 37   long teazed with ecclesiastical broils. But the body - they all believe in that. Hence the longer grasp which the property professions and the physical professions retain upon the State. A man may die out of the pale of salvation - that does not matter ; but if he dies without physic that is serious ; the coroner gets at him, and his surroundings are tried for manslaughter. It is because the current State has no belief in souls, but all belief in bodies; and cares follow beliefs. And yet a time is coming when we shall be forced to be consistent in this matter; and either to supervise all souls in th" old sense of the Despotic Church, or to give up the supervision of all bodies in the new sense of the Free State. This is a true political basis for a religious Liberal party. It means the right of all people to take care of themselves; and fundamentally to judge what is expedient for their own bodily health without dictation from professional trades. It means the removal of the medical cloud from the atmosphere of the country ; and of the Flying Island of atheistical Science from over the cornlands of the daily life. It means the constitution of conscience as supreme in the mother, in the nursery, in the sickroom, and at the physical deathbed, from whence the same conscience arises to judgment as person and character beyond the grave.   VACCINATION IN NEW ENGLAND.  " I have made inquiries concerning vaccination, and I am not able to discover that there is any organized movement against it, or any literature opposing it, in America. The doctors, some of them professors in Boston University, with whom I have talked on this subject, all agree in saying that there is a widespread feeling against vaccination, and that it is steadily growing, but does not as yet take the form of organized resistance. There is strong individual resistance, as in cases that I know,   3§   Vaccination Tracts.   where parents have never sent their children to the Boston schools because they could not do so without having them vaccinated, and this they would not do.- You will hardly understand what force of will it takes to do this in this city, but it would present itself strongly to you if you were here, and so cognizant of the pressure which impels and compels children into our public schools. To resist it is heroic, and especially so in parents who make known their reasons, when to do this is to excite prejudice, and win for them the cognomen of law-breakers. We shall one day have schools that will give mental nourishment without its being bought at the cost of this physical danger and hurt, but the day is not yet. Don't you think a good large bit of the kingdom will have come in when this time arrives?" (E. M.i Bruce, Jan. 14, 1878.)  Be it observed that Boston is the city whose people has been served with smallpox cow-lymph on a large scale. We read from Dr. Seaton in Tract 12: "In 1852 Mr. Ceely's experiments were repeated in America by Dr. Adams of Waltham and Dr. Putnam of Boston, who were able, it is said, in consequence, to furnish the, city and neighbourhood [of Boston] with ail the vaccine [smallpox] matter used there since that period."  Since then Dr. Martin and the other calf-lymphers have taken Boston in hand, and if they may be credited, its blood has been polluted with " pure calf-lymph " on a large scale. The city of the pilgrim fathers, one of the foremost abodes of freedom and honesty in the world, has undergone, and is perpetually undergoing, these t\vo| experimentations. And they are the Caudine Forks under which all pupils must pass to enter the public schools. \  A new pathological problem arises. As every seed of disease grows and develops in the course of generations, what complex of ill will come out of the superposition of new strata of animal and human poison thus introduced^ A generation of smallpox constitutions transmitting ifl own virus to the third and fourth generation, and this   The Children of the Pilgrim Fathers calf-lymphed. 39   virus interrupted, angered, and replenished with the virus of the calf-lymphers, whatever that occult virus may be. Pathological speculation fails to calculate this future, and must wait for facts ; but it has a right to forecast that new and terrible disease must arrive from these com- pound invasions of the inner lives of men.  And if the calf-lymphers could have their day, it is but another example of an old world scriptural fact, that evils themselves are fathers and mothers, and produce new evils as the old ones are forced to be abandoned ; and new falsities as their pretexts : as it were a succession of furious beasts which devastate mankind.  We therefore counsel honest men to oppose the newest disguises of the vaccination evil as they have opposed the old. And we bid the calf-lymphers beware of" what they are doing. They have a new responsibility as the originators of a new mischief. They also have the responsibility of perceiving the evils of vaccination, and yet they do not come out of it, but scoop in it a fresh cave in which they may continue the old ways. A new infamy deeper than Jenner's awaits their names ; for he erred in darkness, they sin in daylight. They will stand in history as embodiments of the filthy conception of diseasing calves ad infinitum - " the cattle upon a thousand hills, which are the Lord's" - in order to diseasehuman infants; and as vast mean tyrants who are willing to arm this fresh wickedness against beast and man with the compulsion of law. They will be the pilloried golden calves of modern story. They will be signalled out among medical minds as inspired with the scurviest life-purpose ever yet enthusiastically adopted by a rational human creature ; the purpose of calf-lymph- ing the human race as a means to its physical regenera- tion, and as capable of the most detailed violation of all good affections. Figures horribly ridiculous : hell has never sent forth a more successful joke against deluded human nature-   4o   Vaccination Tracts.   A WISE WORD.  It seems to me in these matters of inoculation that it is a wrong practice, but has originated from the ordinary practice of medicine being insufficient and not understood. There is no doubt that there are medicines enough to cure all diseases, and it is also beyond doubt that a merciful and loving God has caused these to be discovered, to relieve suffering humanity, and, we may add, all His creatures. But the practice of medicine being rarely used in dependence upon God, and so seek- ing wisdom and knowledge in the use of this medicine, - hence the insufficiency. Being learned in their own understanding, one proposes this, another that, no one really knowing in a true sense how to use these gifts. So these artificial practices spring up. I once spoke to a veterinary homoeopath about inoculating cows for lung disease ; and he agreed with me. " No doubt," he said, " we ought to cure, not to give disease, but we do not know how." Captain William Caldwell.   "The first objection made is on religious grounds. There are ways of attaining and preserving health which are not only dishonest but unlawful ; as, for instance, if a poor man improves his diet by thieving from his neigh- bour's larder ; or if he picks his neighbour's pocket in order that he may have the benefit of foreign travel and a good climate ; or if he kills his neighbour to inherit, and exchange bad for good sanitary conditions. These things may make him fat and sleek, and strong in body; but though they be the grounds of his health and restoration, they are evidently wrong and irreligious, and conscience dies of them. It is therefore no answer to one who objects to them, to say that they give health where they have no right to give it. Nor if vaccination prevented   Medical Practices are Atheometric.   41   smallpox entirely, would that result close the question, Whether vaccination be good or bad, right or wrong ?  " In the highest sense the thing is wrong, an offence to God and to man. Under these conditions, if it does any good, if it saves any healths and lives, it is dishonest and infernal good, such as a man gets when he prospers by evil courses, and which damns him more completely at last." - Brother Jonathan, 1878.   "Whatever can be produced of disease, by flies, by aphides, by lice, by communication of corruption, shall not we moderns also wisely inquire, and so recover of our diseases ? " John Ruskin.   VACCINATION, AN ATHEOMETER.  "The way in which we treat our bodily health depends very much on the light in which we regard our bodies. If we think of them as even in the present life remote images of the Maker, and so embodying a human form which descends from above, and ought therefore to be a shrine, we have high motives for guarding the body against debasement; and we live in the continual admission that it ?nay be profaned and desecrated. If we regard it as ascending from matter, and as the present last result of a series of material evolutions, as not a shrine, but a property, worldly and carnal motives and cares are not excluded, but supreme motives are. There can be no question of profaning such an organism, but merely of spoiling it (which is a matter of experiment, though of very hazardous experiment, from which religion would save us) ; for profanation stands over against holiness, and there can be nothing holy in matter. Hence a wide range of things may be done by con- scienceless man to conscienceless matter, which con- science should forbid and religion disallow. We have   42   Vaccination Tracts.   sometimes suspected that vaccination is one of these, though it be indeed practised by large bodies of religious people. Perhaps their ignorance, and their subservience to authority, excuses them. We do not argue that point. But our contention is, that the things which conscious people, not ignorant people, do to their bodies, are a measure of their heart-beliefs about the human frame. For instance, if they are willing to have it profaned and polluted for health's sake, by vaccination, by trans- fusion of blood, etc. etc., that demonstrates their ma- terialism, and their disbelief in any indwelling spirit. So the medical practice of any age is one im- portant Atheometer of the time. And now to turn to consequences, - if the Atheists are ruling in science, as they are at present, interferences of a for- midable kind with life and organization are at hand. One after another they will come forth, and being violent, they will seek the name and clothing of Law And if Parliament contains many active Atheists, the last liberties of men, women, and children will be cut and castrated by statute on the table of medical materialism. For beliefs and disbeliefs become substan- tial very fast." - Brother Jonathan, 1878.   STATE BONDS WHICH CAN NEVER BE PAID.  Dr. Warlomont of Brussels says : - " In any country where it is obligatory upon parents to have their children vaccinated, the State is under a moral obligation to furnish families with a vaccine which is beyond the risk of all suspicion of containing constitutional (diathesic) adit Itera- tions."  What animals can such a vaccine come from, when all known animals are liable to diseases, and the domestic animals especially- the only tribes that have been observed in all historical time- to constitutional and hereditary - eminently diathesic - diseases.   Words of Cheer.   43   Medicine exhibits a childish audacity and frivolity in laying down in morals an impossible thing for the State to do, and then proposing to the State a direct repudia- tion of its own conditions. The function of the State is to watch when ill is done, to punish it, to forbid its repetition, and thus finally to abolish the commission of the evil. The proper establishment of medicine is the placing of it under law ; not that medicine itself should be law in the Law ; but only medical good conduct not infringing police. Prevention is better than cure ; and the removal of privileged bodies, by destroying dens, gets at evils which could not before be laid hold of.   DYNAMITE OF DISEASE.  "The reader remembers the infernal machine at Bremerhafen, which was meant to explode ships at sea in order to realize gain by insurances. It was scientific and artistic, and destroyed at long-time intervals. Now many diseases, and notably the artificial plants of disease put in by vaccination, are like Thomasson's dynamite on board a man's body. The organic ship starts fair, full of healthy passengers ; but there is one fell package put into the hold; and the ship goes down, from mischief framed by a law, in mid ocean j instead of reaching the port of threescore years and ten." - Brother Jonathan, 1878.   WORDS OF CHEER.  William Lloyd Garrison, in speaking of the Contagious Diseases Acts, uttered words which should be laid to heart by all anti-vaccinators : -  " This is not a matter of statistics. Your Government sanctions pollution ; and you say pollution is ?wt to be sanc- tioned. You are bound to confront it as a great immor-   44   Vaccination Tracts.   ality, an impiety against God ; and statistics cannot but show (if they are correctly compiled) that immorality does and will work evil in every direction. For God does not make it possible that that which in itself is immoral and iniquitous shall be good anyhow, at any time, or under any circumstances. And thus it is that I would have you take up this matter, and press it home. . . . Well, friends, you will go on, of course. Not one of you will think of retreating. Why, it is the best invest- ment for the soul's welfare possible, to take hold of something which is righteous but unpopular. Righteous but unpopular, for men may get hold of an unpopular cause which deserves to be unpopular and is not right- eous. But it invigorates and strengthens us to work in a righteous but unpopular cause; it teaches us to know ourselves ; to know what it is we are relying on - whether we love the praise of men or the praise of God. As for me, I think I should not know how to take part in a popular movement - it would seem so weakening, so enervating. Everybody is there, and there is nothing to be done, excepting to shout. Let others do that if they like ; but while this world remains as it is, while so much has yet to be done to make the world better, God grant that while I live I may be connected still, as far as possible, with causes which, being righteous, are un- popular, and struggling, in God's name, against wind and tide. Living and dying, I will give my support to such, and look to God for His blessing in the end." - June 29, 1877.   UNION AGAINST MEDICAL EVILS RECOM- MENDED.  Before closing this series of Tracts, we would earnestly entreat those who are labouring with us in other parts of the same field to join our forces as far as may be possible. The band of men and women who are waging   Vaccination not a Medical but a Political Thing. 45  war upon the Contagious Diseases Acts, and the other force which is in the field against vivisection and the manifold violation of dumb creatures, are our brethren indeed. We do not expect them to join us as Societies, but we do commend them to the earnest study of our case. In this way we believe our Societies will inter- penetrate ; and like long-oppressed principalities fighting for freedom, lend each other social and spiritual power by public opinion enlarging from particulars to a common end. We have studied the other great causes besides vaccination, and in particular the whole evil, and evil tendency, of medicine as a parasite in the State. We solicit our brethren in like manner to study the  vaccination tion question. Many of them are not with us because they have not taken the pains to be informed. Yet their principles are with us ; their perceptions are with us ; their experience of the doings of State-medicine is with us : and their serious thought about vaccination will make us all co-operators in a larger cause, which will gradually include all humane minds, and make them into a sufficient political power.   THE WHOLE MATTER OF VACCINATION BE- LONGS TO THE PEOPLE NOW, AND NOT TO THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.  This political inference may now be drawn, for the sake of the work it has to do. Whenever a dogma, medical or other, or a practice, is accepted by the State, and either sanctioned or enforced by law, that thing, as a matter of discussion, passes beyond the hands of any particular body or profession, and is made over to the people who constitute the motives of Parliament. What was previously a medical theme, and of the nature of private practice, and was judged for good or bad accord- ingly, and liable to common law, has become now a   46   Vaccination Tracts.   political subject, and demands the education of the whole people about it because it is a law of the land, and the electors are responsible for its fairness. In this way vaccination and vivisection, though practised by the doctors, have really quitted their domain, and the light of the public mind, so far as it exists, now shines upon them. The public will is omnipotent over them, and the doctors have become the officials of the electors. This case, dreadful as it looks, which makes the State into the grand vaccinator and vivisector, is a stage which must be reached before evils attain their limit and their goal. And it has this effect, that the moment the evils are in the State, on their apparent thrones, their judgment begins. Fine scientific distinctions are gone ; they are unknown to politics ; long words of pretext are gone ; and the questions of good and bad, right and wrong, pure and impure, tolerable and abominable, human and anti-human, are alone left upon the scene. These, and not now the most unquestionable statistics, are the judges and juries from which there will ultimately be no appeal in all such scientific methods and procedures. In the State the wickedness becomes all-visible, and the com- mon heart of the kingdom will do battle with it ; the tyrannical pollution becomes all-repulsive, and the ab- horrence of the human bodies of the constituencies must do away with it. On such subjects, State-impounded, popular education in right and decency will be the controller of the medicine of the future, and the enthrone- ment of evil will then have accomplished its work, to give place to its criminal day, the black morning and the national scaffold.  The question, "O Lord ! how long?" is thus an- swered in one degree for these evils. The first length is the completion and fulfilment of the evil by its accept- ance into the State, so that the State itself becomes the diabolus or aggressor. The second length is the political education of the entire people, until they are awakened to a consciousness of their sin, and sorrowfully, repen-   The True Union of Christendom.   47   tantly, and resolutely cast it out of the State. To this issue our Tracts are directed, to instruct the conscience of the British people concerning their own wrongdoing in the matter of compulsory vaccination. They, and not the medical men, are now supreme for good or evil here. The third length is the Lord giving us victory over the evil after we have fought to the uttermost as from ourselves. We have to seem to do it all before He does it for us.   THE UNION OF CHRISTENDOM AGAINST THE EVILS OF CHRISTENDOM.  To this end, of instructing the people in their duties as the choosers, the electors, of good or evil in the great cause which we are pleading, all earnest men among us should devote themselves with unwearying zeal. The cause is primarily and especially a religious one. The neglect of it weighs heavily upon the religious bodies of the country ; for " the Lord's Kingdom is a Kingdom of Uses." There is not a Church or a Sect that should not have it at heart. To the Jew it should be dear, because the purity of his race and his blood is enjoined upon him by direct command from the begin- ning to the end of his Bible ; and pollution and abomi- nation in a bodily sense are continual themes of wrath and woe in the Law, in the Psalms, and the Prophets. Bestial and unnatural tampering with the human frame is against the Jewish religion. To the Christian the same Word applies; and the spirit of it, as Gospel purity, enters into all his deepest affections, and the essential liberties which flow from them. To give up our little children to blood-pollution for any offered good is against even the grossest conception of the genius of the Christian religion. It is unguided and unprincipled heathenism. "Cast not your pearls before swine," says the Lord; and our little children are our pearls ; and swine are to be appeased by no offering, but ravenously sensual in   4 8   Vaccination Tracts.   practice, the consequence of them is always, in short time or in long time, that they turn again and rend you. "Suffer little children to come unto Me," says the Lord : but the pollution of the frames and faculties of little children robs them of a sound mind in a sound body, and grievously stands in their way in coming to Him ; it also renders parents and guardians responsible to God because they have not suffered the little ones to come unto Him. " whose offendeth one of these little ones which believe in Me," saith the Lord, "it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea." whose makes an orphan of a new-born child by violently putting aside the parental affection that would shield him from harm, the affection that is the cradle of the cradle, the arm and breast of the mother, and the virtue of the father, - whose comes forcibly with vice of poison unto the child, does in the greatest degree offend against the little ones. Yea, the falsity of his evil has already sunk him to the bottom of the sea,* where he welters in a stupidity that is immeasurable. These are not Old Testament commandments, but they are truths of the Word for all churches and chapels, whose main work it is to stand against everything that defiles. Accordingly we turn with hope and with remonstrance to the religious bodies of Great Britain, and summon them one and all to a religious war against vaccination. They are the final refuges against natural panic, which is the ground on which vaccination lives. Let them teach men to be brave in the cleanliness and purity which come from God. They are the centres of rebuke to evil and of encouragement to good. Their light and life should inspire all the elections that men have to make in the outer and political spheres. And one church or chapel  * The sea here evidently signifies extreme naturalism separate from and hostile to spiritual life ; the element that drowns the soul and spiritually suffocates it. Materialistic medicine is head down- wards in this sea.   The True Union of Christendom.   49   or synagogue resolute in God's name against vaccination would be a new centre in the country : it would be such a true centre as none but a religious organization can supply. The dragon of blood-pollution would turn pale before it. It would be compact and unwasted, replenished from within , against persecution. It would burn and shine with the work of its mission, infecting other bodies with its liberty, and encouraging them with its intelligence. It would teach the State that there is subordination in professions; and that the supreme region of religious principle is above the body and the world, and will tolerate no insurrection from their hopes and fears. It would make religion into the guardian of the most precious liberties, and place them beyond the reach of wicked men. Shall not one such church, chapel, or meeting-house be found, where the Bible is the most practical of books, and guards the homes of the rich and poor alike? Shall not one such Sunday and weekday school be found to teach parliaments and judges and magistrates the A B C of common innocence and right- eousness ? Shall not one such light arise to break open the darkness of the press, to rebuke the vanity of literature, and to tell truths where they are unwelcome and wanted. At least our task is done for the present in crying aloud to all religious bodies, and in warning them that a great victim, a sorrowing childhood bound to the rock of materialism, pleads for rescue here.  Our suggestion is that religious bodies shall have special services for the instruction of the congregation in the urgent duties of the day, with prayers, hymns, and discourses suitable. That they shall begin to fight from the truths of the Word, a few of which are here cited, against private and public evils, and thus become militant in Bible power; and find in public and private regeneration the witness of Scripture and the evidence of Christianity. In this way upon many subjects- such as vivisection, vac- cination, the scientific and artistic abuse of women by the fingering slaves of Governments, medical domination over 14 " D   5°   Vaccination Tracts.   religion, and judicial and parliamentary denunciation of conscience as phantasy, and of pure children as nuisance - godly instruction will be diffused, and religious resist- ance prepared and organized. And when any beam of evil life is taken from the eye of the country, the mote of non-perception of outward truth may be clearly seen and easily removed ; and thus the religious bodies, as a part of their office, will become fontal schools of righteous science, and the Divine truth, cleansing and merciful, will flow into and fertilize natural truths. All depends upon practical good from the Word of God being the centre of worship, of thought, and of action. A complete counter- poise to the atheist schools will thus be brought into play; a true balance, and more than a balance, of power against scientific despotism. There is not a church or chapel in the wide world in which such service cannot be rendered, unless, indeed, there be any church empty enough of God to hold that religion has no real rela- tion to life. The truth for all knowledge, natural and divine, is, " If ye will do the works ye shall know of the doctrine." The truth for life and practice is, " Cease to do evil; learn to do well." These things in their own power the Church universal alone can receive and communicate ; and this it can do only and surely by practical determina- tions against evil carrying out doctrinal teachings of good.   NOTE.  CONSTRUCTIVE SMALLPOX.  This heading embraces three particulars. 1st, The vast smallpox mortalities of past ages. 2nd, The vast multitudes who would have died had they not been saved by vaccination. 3rd, The equal pres- sure of smallpox on the modern world, prevented from striking only by the same means. The two last come clearly under the head of Constructive Smallpox, potential and actual, and are important bases of the assertion in the Times, that the certainty of the benefits of vaccination is almost equal to the certainty of the law of gravita-   Constructive Smallpox.   tion. We have treated of these heads before. But with regard to the death-rates of more remote periods, which are the principal argument in proving the benefits of vaccination, much remains to be safd ; and it does not surprise us to learn that nothing solid is known on the subject. Alexander Wheeler says in his tract, "Vaccination in the Light of History" (1878) : "The extraordinary mortalities of smallpox which are so often quoted for times long distant from our own are only 'founded on fact.' They are not obtained from the actual records of experience. The assertions of Jurin, Lettsom, and others, as to millions of lives being lost annually in Europe are wholly fallacious. No bases for such statements exist, or have existed. This is the way they were arrived at : In one year, or a set of years, there is a mortality of 4000 per million* in London. On page 121 of second volume of Dr. Lettsom's 'Life and Letters' you will find how he uses this one fact, or supposed fact. I quote it now: 'Now Europe contains nearly 200,000,000, and conse- quently the deaths in Europe ivotild be\ 400,000. The globe con- tains probably 1,200,000,000, and the deaths by smallpox may be in the same ratio.'" This is constructive smallpox indeed ; figure- cooking and fact-cooking combined. It will be well to see if there is any other basis whatever for the alleged mortalities than a calculation of this kind ; and also whether inoculation does not account in more recent times for great mortalities where they are reliably . reported ; just as vaccination does now. Panic must always be taken into account as the chief arithmetician in the early times ; and we know what a figure-blower he is : how his bubbles " in buckram " grow. There is another subject also ; the deaths of royal and noble personages by the score in earlier times of  smallpox . But what were their habits? Were they the upper classes in temperance and general sanity, even in the sense in which their suc- cessors are at the present day ?   In the people's struggle with calf-lymph, which is the present asylum into which defeated vaccination is flying, let it be well observed that there are numerous other diseases besides syphilis which cause vaccination mortality, though syphilis is the only disease yet admitted by the profession. See our Tract n. XIII. on Vaccination Murders, p. 15. Almost every one of these diseases is communicable in calf-lymph, being hereditary or incident in the cow. The possibility of the inherence of these diseases in vaccine is now ignored, as syphilis was denied. The experience of the suffering people, and the bills of mortality since vaccination was enforced, prove the danger beyond all question. Calf-lymph is therefore a continuation of vaccination murders.  * The verification of this statement is difficult- Dr. Greenhow's tables bein~ partly estimates. f The italics are ours.- Eds.   VACCINATION TRACTS.   No. I. Letters and Opinions of Medical Men. ,, II. Facts and Figures, showing that Vaccination has failed to stamp out, arrest, or mitigate  smallpox .  " III. & IV. Opinions of Statesmen, Politicians, Pub- licists, Statisticians, and Sanitarians.  " V. Cases of Disease, Suffering, and Death reported by the Injured Families.  ,, VI. The Vaccination Laws a Scandal to Public Honesty and Religion.  ,, VII. Vaccination a sign of the Decay of the Political and Medical Conscience in the Country.  ,, VIII. The Propagation of Syphilis to Infants and Adults  by Vaccination and Re-vaccination. " IX. Vaccination evil in its Principles, false in its  Reasons, and deadly in its Results. " X. Vaccination subverts Dentition, and is a cause  of the prevalent Deformity and Decay of the  Teeth.  " XI. Compulsory Vaccination a Desecration of Law, a Breaker of Homes, and Persecutor of the Poor. " XII. Historical and Critical Summary in Three Parts.  Part I. - The Imposture of the current Smallpox Lymph called Vaccine, and the new Imposture of Calf-Lymph. Also, the Chaos of Statute Law dealing with Vaccine Substance. " XIII. Historical and Critical Summary in Three Parts.  Part II. - The Cry of the People against Vaccination is seconded by the Registrar-General's Returns, and justified by the Evidence of Pathology. XIV. Historical and Critical Summary in Three Parts.  PART III.- Pro Arts etFocis. The Religious Nature and Political Necessity of the Vaccination War. 