smallPOX k YACCINATii   AND THK   VACCINATION ACTS   HE^LLT ^E/E   (Reprinted from the National Anti-Comptilsory- Vaccination Reporter^ for yune^ J^^ht ^^^^ August^ i8So^)   BY   MRS. I-IUME-ROTHERY.   Hon. Secretary of the National Anti-Compulsory- Vaccination League.   SECOND EDITION   PRICE ONE PENNY. Post Free. l^d. ; or per dozen, Is. 4d.   LEICESTER :  I£. LAxMB, PRINTER, GRANBY PLACE.   V^   ^^af g^tnatt'-^ox anb Vaccination an6 t^e Vaccinafioit Jlcf^ ^eattx^ ^vc.   (Reprinted from the ^^ National Afiti-Corttpulsory- Vaccination Reporter,^ for Jiine^ J^^^y, ci7id August^ 1880.)   |T might seem almost ridiculous at this stage of the question to be offering information on the above elementary phases of it, were it not that the dominant medical sect, interested in the maintenance of the Vaccination tyranny, has so perversely and persistently mis- represented not only vaccination but  smallpox , that the bewildered and doctor-ridden public - the blind following the blind - seems to possess no rational conceptions whatever on the subject. So used are people to regard smallpox as their medical confessors have taught them to regard it, as a deadly and mysterious scourge unamenable to all known sanitary laws, and vaccination as an equally mysterious heaven-sent boon, a simple and harmless operation acting, no one knows how or why, as an all-powerful charm against it, that it no more occurs to them to use their common sense for reflecting on or inquiring into the matter, than it did to dutiful religionists of old to use their common sense for reflecting on or inquiring into the doctrines which their priestly confessors propound- ed, and their assent to which was taken for granted. Now this blind confidence in human teachers always results alike, whatever the subject of the teachings. " The prophets prophesy falsely,^' and the " people love to have it so ;" and the darkness of profound ignorance over- shadows prophets and people alike. Thus and thus only could the ex- ceeding stupidity he accounted for, which rendered possible the passing of such a law as the Compulsory Vaccination Law in this enlightened (!) nineteenth century. Once let the true nature of smallpox and of vac- cination be understood by those in whose hands lies the power to act in the matter, and the law must fall in a moment. No Government or Parliament could be found stupid or wicked enough to maintain it if they only understood what they were doing. It may not, therefore, be so useless as it would at first seem to place clearly before the public what smallpox and Vaccination really are, from which it will be easy to draw irrefragable deductions as to the possible or probable action of the   latter upon the former. And first as to smallpox. smallpox is an eruptive fever like scarlet fever or measles ; but the eruption accompany- ing it is of a far more distressing and repulsive type, indicating a degree of impurity in the blood amounting in severe cases to positive corrup- tion. Now it is well known that impurity in the blood may be generated either by the inhalation of foul air, sewer gases, and the like ; by want of cleanliness in person, so that the process of excretion of effete matters through the skin is checked or prevented ; or by gross and un- clean diet ; and by unclean and immoral habits of life, which generate impurity within the system itself. smallpox, in a word, like other zymotic diseases, is eminently a filth-disease. Miss Nightingale in her invaluable Notes on Nursmg^ has told us how she herself saw smallpox growing up and developing in the wards of a hospital, in sequence to scarlatina and other less severe eruptive fevers, under the continued pressure of increased overcrowding. There is nothing, therefore, mysterious about smallpox. It is not an evil genius travelling from afar and pouncing down upon this or that city, or village, or district, *^ brought from'' such another place by some luckless individual whom the helpless ignorance of local medicos fixes on as a scapegoat. It is a harvest springing up in localities where the seed has been sown for it, by individuals, or communities, or both. When by indiyiduals alone, the result is what doctors call " sporadic cases.*' When by communi- ties, epidemics of smallpox result, more or less deadly and extensive in proportion to the amount of impurities threatening social existence and peremptorily calling for expulsion ! For small -pox, like all eruptive diseases, is in fact a curative process set up by the 1 beneficent life-power within to free the nobler vital organs from the inimical presence of im- purities in the blood, (which w^ould otherwise fatally injure them,) by throwing them out into the skin for exhalation into the atmosphere. That smallpox is really such a curative process, and not the deadly scourge and pestilence which doctors pretend it to be, is shown by two very remarkable facts ; first, that persons recovering from  smallpox  habitually enjoy better health than before, for years, or even for life ; secondly, that in the severest epidemic years the general death rate is shown to be actually lower than in years when no smallpox has pre- vailed ; smallpox having only carried off those, too unhealthy to sustain its curative process, who would inevitably have succumbed to some disease or other, and having saved some who would otherwise have fallen victims. The figures demonstrating this rule - so invariable that we think only one exception, and that on a very limited scale, is on record - were published by Mr. Gibson Ward in his famous letter to the Times in January, 1879, and have remained uncontroverted, being in fact incontrovertible. But, for all this,  smallpox  is a very painful and distressing disease, though it is quite false to assert, that ivhen properly treated^ it leaves evil consequences behind it. When doctors did their best, ignorantly, to murder their patients, by depriving them of every breath of fresh air, of any cool drink, or refreshing ablutions, smother- ing them in blankets, and forcing them to breathe in and in the effluvia   5  Irom the skiu and lungs, naturally those who survived bore terrible traces of the murderous ordeal through which they had passed, and frightful seaming and disfigurement and bHndness itself w^ere too frequent results - not of the disease, but of the doctoring. If nature be sus- tained and aided in her effort to purify the blood, if fresh air, cool drinks, and nourishing but easily digestible food be provided, but above all if the skin be kept open by frequent ablutions, or, still better, by steam or lamp baths, inducing free perspirations, then if the patient has strength to sustain the needful struggle for purification and survives, no evil con- sequences, no injury even to the delicacy and clearness of the skin need be apprehended ; and under such treatment, as hydropaths and herbalists tell us with one voice, patients very rarely fail to recover. Mr. Smedley, of Matlock, never lost one among all the smallpox cases he treated. The smallpox pitting of which  vaccination -mongers have made so fearful a bug-bear to frighten ignorant women and weak-minded persons of both sexes, is simply a disgrace to the profession. Why, Mr. Simon's famous Vaccination Blue Book of 1857 records - the record, indeed, carefully relegated to a remote appendix - that the celebrated Arabian physician, Rhazes, who lived in the tenth century, taught how to prevent pitting by smallpox, by the use of luke-w^arm wet compresses. And yet to this day enlightened (!) medical practitioners are dinning it into the ears of the public that vaccination is the only protection against pitting ! Let us now see what pitting is, and whence it arises, and it will then be easy to judge what vaccination can have to do with the matter. It may not be generally known - or at least doctors have taken good care that if known the fact should not be dwelt on or understood - that pitting is almost always confined to the face, being that portion of the body which is exposed to the air. Under the clothes, such disfigurement in these days of improved though still far from rational medical treatment, is, we believe, extremely rare. The inference is clear. The exposed fevered skin of the face becomes dry and incapable of performing the natural function of exhalation, through the pores, of the foetid matter thrown into it from the blood. Unable to exhale, the matter becomes stagnant and more and more corrupt, and corrodes and eats into the flesh around and beneath it ; and part of it being re-absorbed into the blood tends no doubt to create the so-called ^'secondary fever," so much dreaded in this disease. The remedy is clear and simple. Keep the skin of the face moist and cool by frequent ablutions, or by the luke-warm compresses of Rhazes, so that the insensible perspiration and exhalation are freely maintained, and the corrupt matter passing off as intended by nature leaves no malignant traces behind. Still better, were baths for producing copious perspiration resorted to in the early stages of the fever, there would, in many cases, be no pustular eruption to speak of, and its malig- nity and distressingness would at any rate be reduced to comparative mildness. We know of cases in which an ordinary vapour bath given in a cottage, and a Turkish bath taken on another occasion, resulted in the one case in reducing the subsequent eruption to two or three pustules on the forehead, in the other in dispersing the fever without any eruption   at all. Common sense immediately accepts the lesson. There is poison in the blood ; nature seeks to expel it through the skin, the natural excretory organ ; help nature and the process is accomplished with com- parative ease and with the most salutary results. This, then, is how smallpox should be treated, simply by assisting the curative process set up, and keeping up the strength of the patient while passing through it.  ** But is it not much better," it may be asked, '' to pra^ent  smallpox  than to treat it ever so successfully ? And are doctors therefore not right in preventing it by vaccination ? " To this we reply : If the real mischief, the impure state of the blood, of which smallpox is only the external indication and result, can be prevented, then undoubtedly it must be best to do so, but before it is possible to judge whether vac- cination can conceivably effect this, we must proceed to our second question - What Vaccination really is ?  The operation commonly, though most incorrectly, called Vaccination, meaning vaccine inoculation, consists in, firstly, puncturing the skin with some sharp instrument, (the darning-needle originally used by old women in the cottages of Gloucestershire peasants, having now given place to the lancet) and secondly, introducing into the blood through the wound thus made, a virus ^ or disease-matter taken from a sore. The sores on the udders of cows from which Jenner drew his original vaccine-matter, were, according to him, produced by infection, through the hands of careless milkers, from the heels of horses affected by the disease called "grease." ''Spontaneous cowpox," or cowpox not due to infection, was, according to Jenner, productive only of a spurious or non-protect- tive virus. This fact proves that vaccination was from the first a misno- mer, Jenner probably foreseeing that the ''greasy" heels of horses would exercise a very repellent influence on the minds of the commonalty ; and further, that the modern pretence of our Animal-vaccine fanatics, that a return to the use of spontaneous cowpox matter would remedy the evils of the present system, and restore the protective virtues of vaccination in all their - alleged - original efficacy, is a sheer delusion or deception. Spontaneous cowpox - when, or if such a disease exists, which is itself matter of dispute - had nothing whatever to do with vaccination. Jenner, also, used the "grease" matter from the horse, without its passing through the cow at all, though he appears to have preferred the latter. But for many years past, Jenner's equine co7V-pox, if I may so describe it, has disappeared ; probably through a division of labour, separating the office of stable-boy from that of milker ; and also . through the adoption of habits of greater cleanliness in stables and cow- byres j and Jenner's original " vaccine matter " has therefore long been unattainable. The custom then became universal, or nearly so, of using the matter taken from the so-called " vaccine " sore on the arm of one child or person, for the inoculation of others ; which custom the pro • fession designates as " arm-to-arm vaccination." For the last thirty years, however, or thereabouts, a further change of custom has taken place in the practice of vaccination in this country, induced probably by two causes : first, the difficulty of obtaining sufficient supplies of the   7  disease-matter - so dishonestly called "pure lymph" by those who know too well its impure source ; and secondly, the growmg dread, among parents, of the blood-diseases so constantly communicated from family to family by the "arm-to-arm'' moculation. Doctors, therefore, adopted the practice of inoculating calves with smallpox matter, and of using the matter thus obtained (which they impose upon many ignorant parents as "matter from the cow direct") for their so called  vaccination s. But just as thistles remain thistles whether sown in a field or a garden, so must smallpox matter remain smallpox matter whether inoculated into child or calf; which was distinctly proved, - for the benefit of those who have no perception of natural law or principle, - by an elaborate series of experiments, undertaken by the Lyons Medical Commission, some years back. The present system of vaccination, therefore, as generally practised in this country, and sanctioned by Government, is really inocu- lation with smallpox virus, or Variolation ; as was pointed out a couple of ye.ars since in a letter from the Irish Local Government Board to an Irish Board of Guardians, and as is freely recognised by many medical writers and authorities, and put forward by pro-vaccinators as one ol the grounds on which a change of system to purely Animal Vaccination is desirable. No wonder that under this system of "Variolation"  smallpox  epidemics constantly increase in frequency and malignity; while smallpox which formerly appeared as an epidemic, with intervals of many years between its successive appearances, is now endemic amongst us and scarcely ever absent from our bills of mortality. Moreover as this variolous matter is also passed from arm to arm repeatedly, it of course transmits not only the original variolous taint, but any blood- taint which may be present in the system of those children from whose arms matter for the vaccination of others is taken ; whence the fearful increase of infant mortahty indirectly, and the terrible diseases and deaths directly, caused by this atrocious practice of inoculation with disease-matter, falsely called vaccination.  llie question has often been raised - What sanction or analogy can be found in science or nature for this singular practice of inoculation with disease-matter ? We have no hesitation in atfirming that all sanitary science absolutely condemns it, inasmuch as the removal and rejection of all sources of impurity which can befoul the blood or corrupt the blood are recognised by it as objects of primary importance ; whereas vaccination injects impure matter taken from a foul sore directly into the blood. In nature, however, we are at no loss to find abundant and striking analogies to the practice. The thorns and spines of poisonous plants, the stings of noxious insects, and the fangs of reptiles and the mad dog, puncture, like the lancet of the vaccinator, the skin-tissues, designed by nature to guard the blood from contact with all foreign and injurious matter, and inject, like him, their respective venoms directly into the blood. Thus do the great army of medical pro-vaccinators degrade themselves from professors of the healing art into emulators of the stinging-nettle, the wasp, the hornet, the asp, adder, scorpion, and cobra-capello ; infusing, like these, into the veins of their victims, a virus,   8  or venom, more or less deadly according to circumstances, of which they have little knowledge, and over which they are absolutely without con- trol ; since it is publicly admitted by the most eminent scientists that not even the most delicate microscope can detect a disease-taint - such as that of syphilis for instance - in the disease-matter ironically paraded as "pure lymph." So that after all it is not the innocent un vaccinated infant, but the deluded vaccinator who is - or, at any rate, for all he can tell, 7nay be - " as dangerous as a mad dog!'' Nay, more so ; for even hydro- phobia mercifully puts an end in a few days to life and torture, w^hereas the venom of the vaccinator may work in the veins of the victims for years and years, crippling, blinding, causing limbs or features to rot off, and entailing hopeless disfigurements and disabilities in comparison to which that medical bug-bear - the pitting of smallpox - is but an in- significant trifle. We know of one victim, Ira Connell, of Southport, crippled for life in every limb but one, and even that not left sound ; of one young man named Townsend, at Cheltenham, who, after a period of raving mania, subsided into hopeless lunacy ; of a young girl, at Banbury, utterly imbecile from the epilepsy unknown in her family, but imported from that of the child she was vaccinated from ; of an other- wise healthy young girl in Wales, the sole blot in a large family, with her nose rotted oif her face, and one of her eyes succumbing to the same disease ; we know of infants covered with such loathsome sores that they become a horror to their very parents ; we know of a whole family, the father a respectable merchant in one of our large commercial towns, in which the mother and all but one boy who was away at school were infected from the vaccination of the sixth child, with the most horrible taint, and other children born but to die blighted by the same deadly infection. There is scarcely a conceivable physical horror we do 7iot know of as a direct result of vaccination. Nor are these hopelessly in- curable cases perhaps the most deplorable. What must we say of those which convey an ineradicable taint destined to be transmitted to future generations ? Is not this worse than death ? As to this last there are records of the most variously terrible and painful deaths it is possible to conceive. Parents see their little ones covered with horrible sores and abscesses, and wasting away from the continual discharge ; others with their little limbs and bodies swelling, turning black, and absolutely rotting before death releases them, while some fade and lose spirits and appetite, their very nature seeming changed to dull moroseness, till they die of some subtle brain disease after untold suffering. Is not the poison of the scorpion and the asp beneficent in comparison? If its victims survive they recover without any fearful or lingering consequences of the envenomed bite ; and if they die, death is relatively swift and merciful. Not more swift, however, than that which the vaccine venom in its dead- liest form has power to inflict. In the Hilfe-Ruf^ in, or Cry for Help^ No. 3, addressed to the German Diet, in 1878, we find 1,141 cases of Injury, including 127 cases of Death from vaccination recorded, guaran- teed by the signatures, among others, of ^^ doctors of medicine, includ- ing names of the very highest standing, like those of Germann, Hermann,   Hamernik, Keller, Lorinser,&c. Among these, numbered as Case 499, we find the death of the child of KlausKarhs, 61, Damm-Thorwall, Hamburg. The child - a remarkably fine one, as we learned from a longer narrative pub- lished at the time - was born on Oct. i8th, 1875, ^^'^^ taken by its mother on the 17th of June, 1876, to the surgery of Dr. Windmiiller to be vac- cinated. While still under the hands of the operator, who had just filled the punctures with ^*pure lymph,'^ the child was seized with convulsions and died on the spot. The horrified vaccinator tried all possible means including electricity, to revive the victim, but despite of all, it remained a' corpse. And in a newspaper published at Farringdon, Berks, on the 22nd of May last, we find the following advertisement : -  "On the 8th inst., at 93, Regent street, New Swindon, a few hours after  vaccination tion, Henry Job, son of Frederick Crook, aged 8 months."  In both of these cases the vaccine poison acted with effect as deadly as that of the cobra, and in the first case even more rapidly, so as to preclude the possibility of any remedial measures. In other cases all possible shades and degrees of virulence may be traced, from such as produce merely temporary inconvenience and local inflammation, to such as entail the most terrible and lingering sufferings ending in death or in lifelong misery ; though even in the apparently mildest cases it is im- possible to say that seeds of irreparable mischief may not have been sown, or that any subsequent development of disease may not be the result of the early infusion of a blood-poison, distinctly intended to pro- duce disease j the action of which it is as impossible to limit or define, as that of fire once lighted, in a space within which the kindler of the flame has no control, and of the nature of which he has but a very limited and imperfect knowledge. We have now a very sufficient answer to the question; What Vaccination is? and it remains for us to inquire, Whether, or How, this so-called Vaccination can possibly Prevent smallpox ?  And, in the first place, it is quite evident that the infusion of poison into the blood cannot possibly remove the causes of  smallpox , which consist primarily in impurities of the blood and more remotely in un- healthy surroundings, bad air, impure water, unwholesome food, unclean habits, and constitutional taints. How can it be possible to prevent an effect while leaving its causes in full operation - nay, while positively adding to them a cognate factor with powers of unknown and unknow- able activity ? Agam, health and disease are eternal and irreconcilable opposites. How is it possible to strengthen the former by violently and unnaturally implanting the latter - and let it never be forgotten that *' vaccination" 13 in medical parlance as in fact *^ the vaccine disease'' - in any form, in a healthy organism ? As well breach the wall of a fortress to assist in keeping out the enemy. Again, it is acknowledged by medical pro-vaccinating authorities - the Lancet itself has published cases to prove it - that cowpox and smallpox may and do run their course simultaneously in the same patient, without the one being in any way affected by the other ! If, then, cowpox present^ neither prevents nor modifies smallpox, how can cowpox absent have any effect upon   lO   it? As well say that A when in a room cannot keep B out of it, or tie his hands from doing mischief, but that if B should attempt an entrance after A's departure the *^ odour of sanctity" A leaves behind him will do what A himself was incompetent to do ! And yet this is what our Vaccination-prophets and preachers require their - alas ! too easily-gulled - disciples to swallow, as an article of faith ! And if it be alleged that the vaccine-poison, acting as a ferment, works up and expels blood- poison which might otherwise develop into smallpox - the hypothesis which, we believe, pro-vaccinators sometimes, for want of a better, put forward - it is easy to see that this could only expel blood-poison or impurities then present, such as are least of all likely to be present in the blood of healthy infants (since ineradicable constitutional taints which infants inherit are not even hypothetically removable by vaccination) ; and can have no affect whatever in expelling from the system blood- impurities later to be developed by the unwholesome influences to which smallpox, Hke all other zymotic diseases is attributable. In brief, we have no hesitation in affirming that vaccination cannot possibly prevent smallpox, and has never even in any single case prevented smallpox (no tables of statistics can prove that vaccinated persons who escape smallpox would not equally have escaped, ^^;/vaccmated, whereas they do conclusively prove that many, many thousands die of smallpox after vaccination) except in one or two ways ; either, that is, by so lowering the vital powers, that there is no strength left to throw out blood-poison through the skin, in which case it will fall instead upon some of the vital organs, producing incurable disease; or by killing the vaccinated subject outright so that neither smallpox nor any other mortal disease need thenceforth be dreaded. Except i?i these two ivays (neither of which, we apprehend, will commend itself either to the Legis- lature or the public at large) we fearlessly maintain that Vaccination never did, never does, a?id never can prevent even a single case of smallpox; much less the recurrence of those dreaded smallpox epidemics, the now again increasing frequency and malignity of which so perplexes pro- vaccinators, who are themselves all the while steadily and persistently sowing broadcast, by their blood-poisoning process, seeds of the disease they profess to be *' stamping out."  What, then must we say of the Vaccination Acts - Acts for compelling parents under pain of fines and penalties to submit their infants at the tender age of three months to the aforesaid operation of so-called vac- cination ? And in the first place we afiirm that were Vaccination the heaven-sent boon its benighted advocates declare it, the law would be unconstitutional, un-English, tyrannical, and opposed to the laws of nature, and therefore, in the highest sense of the word law, as defined by Blackstone, Bacon, Hooker, and other acknowledged authorities, ILLEGAL. An Act of Parliament which violates any of the fundamental rights of humanity, such as the right of a non-criminal parent to protect his innocent offspring, is a miserable travestie of law, and a satire upon law-makers. Such a usurpation under the name of law is doubly inde- fensible in a country which professes to have established complete liberty   It  of conscience, and which has, by repeal of all kinds of Test Acts and disabilities, abandoned the right to enforce even Christian baptism on its citizens or legislators. On what conceivable ground of justice or consistency are medical dissenters to be persecuted, while religious dissenters enjoy full freedom and immunity from all disabilities ? But, in the second place, we affirm that disease^ whether vaccine or syphilitic, neither is nor can be a heaven-sent boon, and that a law for compulsorily inflicting disease on every healthy-born citizen of the realm in the very cradle, is one of the most absolutely insane and Godless laws ever set up by the pigmy, man, in defiance of his Creator- whom such a law postu- lates as having done wrong in creating babes healthy, instead of diseased. These Vaccination Acts, then, are a direct insult to the God Whom at least the very large majority of the nation profess to worship. And as to their insanity ! - Does the State need strong and healthy citizens, or puny and diseased ones? The former, no doubt, we shall be told. And so the State enacts a law/^r diseasing every one of them at the period when such injury is sure to be most irreparable, because of the infantine un- developed powers of resistance to disease ! Could lunacy itself outdo this ? Nor will it better the position for our law-makers to record their plea that they are guided in this matter by "medical experts" (as Sergeant Simon told us), that is, by the parties interested by professional pride and lust of domination, in the enactment and maintenance of such a law. Would they believe a body of leading housebreakers, if these assured them burglary was the best means of preserving the property of householders ? Or a Congress of acrobats, if these maintained that standing on their heads was the best way to keep on their feet ? Yet either of these assertions is to the full as reasonable and credible as the pseudo- medical proposition, that to create disease is the best mode of ensuring health. And in the third place these Vaccination Acts are not merely unconstitutional, illegal. Godless and insane ; they are positively and most foully idolatrous ; as much so as any law for sacrificing human beings to Baal or Moloch, or the false gods of our Druid forefathers, could possibly have been. The fact, for long years denied with brazen audacity by these same medical experts, is now openly admitted by them, that vaccination kills and syphilises, or infects with other diseases, a number of its victims. Dr. Cameron himself has stated that one medical authority, the head of a great vaccination institution, M. Depaul of Paris, recognised i66 cases of syphilisation from vaccination in a little over one year. Only Six of them Died. And i6o therefore survived to endure lifelong perhaps, the miseries of foul disease, to transmit the taint to future generations, or to drop, one by one, by the way-side of life, victims of the senseless superstition which sets up the idol Vaccination, in order that the oifering up to its devouring jaws of countless human sacrifices may appease the demon smallpox, or at least induce him to deal mildly with his grovelling votaries ! And if one medical authority records i66 cases and six deaths in one year from vaccino-syphilis alone, who can estimate the number unrecorded of vaccination sufferers from that and all other horrible transmitted diseases ? The Vaccination Acts are there-   12   fore simply Acts for the Offering Up Annually of an Indefinite Number of Human Sacrifices to propitiate an imaginary Devil, ^ set up by Medical Ignorance and Medical Craft as a bugbear to frighten nations into submission to Medical Despotism. The new leading Parli- amentary representative of this Medical Despotism, Dr. Cameron, has publicly stated to a Medical Congress that rather than cede a jot of it, by giving up Compulsory Vaccination, he would maintain the present system of arm-to-arm vaccination - useless and mischievous as he has shown it to be - even at the cost of these numerous (and innumerable) Human Sacrifices - cases^ he called them ! So much for the 19th century Law (!) of Devil Worship and Human Sacrifice to Idols.  Nor shall we, in the fourth place, be surprised to find, that Acts so monstrous in their character /^r se, are productive of all possible forms of evil and demoralisation in the course of their operation ; inevitably degrading all who come in contact with them, those only excepted who bravely and conscientiously denounce, resist and set them at defiance. They familiarise the public mind with the idea that it is lawful to violate conscience and do evil and commit cruelty, in the hope of mere cor- poreal gain. They teach magistrates to outrage justice and to turn courts of law into courts of iniquity by punishing, in these courts, con- scientious parents for doing their duty towards their children by keeping them in health. They demoralise Boards of Guardians, and all parties concerned in their administration, by inciting them to 'oppress and per- secute their neighbours. They demoralise parents by inducing them to sacrifice their children to the Vaccinaiion Moloch, their conscience and duty to the coward fear of fine or imprisonment, thus degrading them beneath the beasts of the field who die to protect their young. They have called into existence a whole legion of spies and informers, those parasites of tyranny, who are taught to live as blood-suckers upon the oppression of their fellows. But beyond all others they have demoral- ised and are demoralising their advocates and supporters in the medical profession, placing a fatal bar against their progress in true science, so that from students and votaries of the noble art of healing they are rapidly sinking, among us, into mere ruthless cutters and carvers, blood poisoners and vivisectors ; scourges instead of benefactors to humanity. These Acts have inaugurated a worship of and faith in filth, as opposed to cleanliness ; m oppression as opposed to liberty ; in quackery and superstition as opposed to hygiene - as the means appointed by the State for promoting the good and improving the health of the com- munity. And in the fifth place these Acts have revived the class-legis- lation so justly odious to all lovers of freedom, which means equal political justice to all ; since they are eminently Acts framed in the interests and to the satisfaction of the ** luxurious classes " (as Mr.  * We have amply shown how imaginary, - smallpox being a mere filth-disease, controllable and extirpable by the simplest hygienic means ; a disease slight and tract- able under proper treatment, according to the learned Sydenham, who lived and wrote two hundred years ago. " Some cases^'' he admitted, " might become dangerous under any treatment." But is there any diseaiic of which this may not be said ?   13  Sclater-Booth so happily puts it), as against the mass of the inteUigent working classes ; whose growing distrust of, and refusal to submit their children to, the ruinous practice of vaccination it was - not as falsely imputed, their negligence or indifference to its blessings (!) - which led its fanatical votaries to obtain from an ill-advised and incompetent Legislature the enactment of a Compulsory law. It is doubly class legislation, because to the rich the fines would be as nothing were they even called upon to pay them ; which they are not, as Vaccination Offi- cers know better than to meddle with M.P/s, J.P/s, and so forth, and family doctors, than to offend their clients by refusing certificates of un- fitness* should by any chance such be called for. In the sixth place these Acts are a fraud, and a violation of another existing law which/or- hWs, under a penalty of ;^so, the inoculation of any child or person with smallpox matter, whereas these Acts enforce what is, as we have shewn, the inoculation of children with smallpox matter, passed, it is true, through calves or heifers, and thence from arm-to-arm, but none the less smallpox matter, and seed of smallpox, forming a nidus for the future development of the disease and sometimes producing it outright on the spot. Dr. Small, of Boston, records four cases properly vaccinated with "vaccine lymph'' obtained from London for the purpose, in all of which genuine smallpox was the immediate result.  In the seventh place these Vaccination Acts are a total and absolute failure. Dr. Cameron himself avers that " either the protective vir- tues OF VACCINATION ARE MYTHICAL or there is Something radically wrong in our national system of vaccination.^' And the statistics - furnished be it remembered by pro-vaccinating medical men - of the epidemics which have visited this country since the establishment of Compulsory Vaccination, prove beyond a doubt - so far as statistical proof can go - that Compulsory Vaccination has tremendously increased smallpox mortality in this country. AVe have often published - but we cannot publish too often - these figures, as laid before Mr. Sclater-Booth by Dr. Pearce, in his *^ Vital Statistics" in Feb., 1877; since which time, more than three years, these figures have been before the public ; unassailed, because unassailable, by even the most rabid of pro- vaccinators :  Vnccinatiori was made compulsory by an Act of Parliament in the year 185 3 ; again in 1867, and still more stringent in I87i. Since 1853, we have had i/tree Epidemics of smallpox^ each being more severe than the one preceding.  Date. Deaths from Small -pox.  1st 1857-58-59 14,244  2nd 1863-64-65 20,059  3rd 1870-71-72 44,840  * The following is a fact. A lady said to her medical attendant, " Now mind, Dr. , I ri)ill not have these children vaccinated." The Dr. hummed and hawed   and looked at the children. " Well, I see So-and-so has something amiss on the forehead; I can give you a certificate of 'unfitness' for them." He did so. The something was a birth-mark, and the doctor the same who had officiated at the child's birth, A near relative of the lady was my informant.   M  Increase of population from ist to 2nd epidemic , 7 per cent.  Increase of smallpox in the same period nearly ^0 per cent.  Increase of population from 2nd to 3rd epidemic 10 per cent.  Increase of smallpox in the same period 120 per cent.  Deaths from smallpox in the first ten years after the enforcement of  Vaccination 1854 to 1^63 33,Si5  In the second ten years - 1864 to 1873 70,4S^  But a far more conclusive proof than any which figures can afford, of the utter failure of vaccination, is the craven fear of smallpox entertained and paraded on every occasion, by medical pro-vaccinators and their blind followers ; who, at perfect liberty to vaccinate themselves and each other, or to be vaccinated as often, and as successfully as they please, are yet constantly raving about, and demanding more stringent legisla- tion to protect them from, the dangers they are exposed to by the obstinacy of the (as they pretend) small and contemptible minority who refuse to be vaccinated. Precisely as if large bodies of troops, entrenched in the strongest possible fortified camps and cities, should promulgate alarmist proclamations and call upon the State to protect them by force of arms, from a few deluded peasants, who persisted in living in open huts or dwellings outside of their impregnible fortifications ! No more utterly ridiculous spectacle than that of these thoroughly " protected ^' professional alarmists and their craven terrors has probably ever been presented to the world. It is nothing to them that whooping-cough, scarlet fever, and measles, diptheria, and many other diseases, annually destroy numbers in comparison to which the death-rate from smallpox is a mere trifle ; it is nothing to them that simple cleanliness, moral and physical, with pure air, and wholesome food, which they have no difficulty in securing, form an all but invulnerable protection against all zymotic disease whatever; it is nothing to them that now, as in Sydenham's day smallpox itself, under simple and suitable treatment is neither a danger- ous nor a disfiguring disease. Proudly taking their stand upon the horrible aggravations of smallpox brought about in the last century by the bioadcast sowing of it through inoculation, and the careful cultivation and development of it to a pitch of horror and destructiveness previously unknown, by a system of treatment utterly disgraceful in its ignorant stupidity - they flaunt these results of the lamentable incompetence of their medical predecessors in the face of the public as all-sufBcient and unanswerable reasons why they should be empowered by law 10 continue this same system of broadcast-sowing of disease (which according to their own reports, they still so treat in their hospitals, that they kill off their imvaccinated patients at three or four times the rate at which smallpox patients died before inocculation or vaccination emerged from the infernal regions of human folly and uncleanness). And, Parliaments and Governments more criminal still, if not more ridiculous, accept the plea ! and instal these direct heirs of the insane malpractices of a past generation, as irresponsible despots over the consciences of parents and the bodies of their children in this present one ! Thus, finally, we have shown   I . That smallpox is no deadly and mysterious scourge capable only of exorcism by a charm quite as mysterious, and still more pernicious, but a simple eruptive fever of the zymotic type ; a filth disease, that is, which cleanliness, therefore, and cleanliness alone can abate, or entirely banish ; and this being so, that if vaccination could prevent it, prevent, that is, the expulsion under that form of the impurities accumulated by whatever process in the blood, it \vould be doing harm and no good :  II. That vaccination is a poisoning of the blood through wounds in the skin precisely analogous to the stings of poisonous plants, insects, and scorpions, and to the bite of serpents and mad dogs, capable of producing, and frequently in fact producing consequences as deadly as, and often far more lastingly horrible and injurious than, any of these; and that it never can and never does protect from  smallpox , except by killing its subjects, or sending inwards to the vital organs, the blood- impurities which might otherwise have been safely got rid of by means of the natural eruptive process.  III. That therefore, the Vaccination Acts - for rendering Compul- sory (whether under pain of one fine or twenty) on the citizens of a so-called free country, this blood poisoning called Vaccination - are  1. Tyranical, Unconstitutional, and in the true sense illegal ;  2. Godless and Insane ;  3. Idolatrous, being Acts for the Continual Offering up of Human Sacrifices;  4. Demoralising to the w^hole community, those only excepted whom they stamp as criminals ;  5. Offensive, as reviving the Class-legislation so justly odious to all lovers of freedom ;  6. Fraudulent, as evading and violating another existing Act of Parliament ;  7. On the direct and indirect testimony of their own supporters and advocates, an Utter and Absolute Failure !  Of such Acts as these, what can be said - but that they are a foul and lasting disgrace to Queen, Lords, and Commons who enacted and sanctioned them ; to every Government - and especially to the so-called Liberal Government - which maintains and administers them ; and to the nation - nation not of freemen, but of slaves ! - which tolerates their existence !  MARY C. HUME-ROTHERY.   Cheltenham^ September^ 1 884. 