No. XI. Medical Opinions, CONCERNING THE PERILS OF VACCINATION. "ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY CHILDREN INFECTED." Referring to the precautions taken at the National Vaccine Establishment to secure purity of lymph, Dr. Cameron contended that they were at best based upon a very questionable theory, and were altogether inadequate to prevent the collection of lymph from infants in whom disease could only be detected on a close and minute examination, such as those who had proved the source of so much mischief, in Mr. Hutchinson's and some of M. Depaul'S cases. * * * M. Depaul, the chief of the Vaccination Service of the French Academy of Medicine, became alive to the danger of the spread of syphilitic infection through vaccination. In a paper which M. Depaul published in 1867, which embraced the record of little over a year's French experience, there were enumerated half-a-dozen more or less extensive outbreaks of vaccinal syphilis, in the course of which upwards of 160 children had been infected, and several had lost their lives. It was not until 1871 that a case of wholesale syphilitic invaccination, brought before the Royal Medical and Surgical Society by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, incontestably proved to the medical profession in this country that the theory on which they had so long relied was unsound. - DR. Charles Cameron, M.P. Address at the London Calf Lymph Medical Conference, Dec, 1879. "THE VACCINE MARKS WERE NATURAL." At the ordinary meeting of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society, held on the 9th December, 1879, Mr. Hutchinson described a case of Vaccinia Gangrenosa, and exhibited the body of the infant, who had been vaccinated three months before death, from the arm of a healthy child. Three other children vaccinated at the same time, from the same source, took no hurt. On the eighth day after vaccination, a papular and vesicular rash appeared over the trunk, which rapidly assumed a sloughing character. The eruption was at first taken for smallpox, and when death took place, a fortnight later, an inquest was held on the case, for it was then thought to be syphilis. But Mr. Hutchinson pointed out that its evolution as well as its character were not those of syphilitic infection, and he considered it to be a true case of vaccinia passing on to a gangrenous condition - a condition he had sometimes observed to take place in varicella. The vaccine marks on the arm were natural. - Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, F.R.C.S., &c. The Lancet, December 13th, 1S79, P. 873. "HAD TO BE SUSPENDED." JENNER had already observed phlegmonous erysipelas to follow vaccination. And in the Foundling Hospital at Petersburg, of 5,000 vaccinated infants, 57 took erysipelas in consequence of vaccination and died. Also in Boston, erysipelas has been seen to follow upon vaccination; and on various occasions vaccination has had to be suspended. - Dr. C. SPINZIG, St. Louis, U.S. 1880. "AFRAID OF THE VIRUS." One pernicious practice, is that of vaccinating children. I am as afraid of the virus as I am of the smallpox. Not only scrofula, but other impurities have been conveyed to the blood of healthy persons by means of vaccination. No one, who has given the subject the least consideration, doubts that impurities may be conveyed in this manner. - DR. A. G. SPRINGSTEEN, Cleveland, Ohio. New York Medical Tribune, January, 18S0. "ITS GHASTLY RISKS." There has fallen an ugly blot. It is too certain that one objection really formidable does exist - that the operation may, in some few instances, impart to the subject of it the poison of a hateful and destructive disease (syphilis), peculiar to the human species, and the fruit and Nemesis of its vices. On this distasteful subject 1 shall simply appeal to the printed testimony of Mr. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON. . . Such facts as he has demonstrated, constitute a rational excuse for objecting to compulsory vaccination / can readily sympathise with, and even applaud a father who, with the presumed dread or misgiving in his mind, is willing to submit to multiplied judicial penalties, rather than expose his child to the risk of an affection so ghastly. - Sir Thomas Watson, Bart., M.D., F.R.S., D.C.L. Nineteenth Century, June, 1880. " CALF-LYMPH FATALITY." MR. Boyle records a case of erysipelas, followed by large ulcerated, unhealthy sores in a previously healthy child, at six months, following vaccination with calf lymph. - Mr. J. H. Boyle, M.B., CM., L.M. Lancet, April 3rd, 1880. "ALMOST DRIVEN TO DESPAIR." I have now under treatment a girl who has an eruption, not un- like smallpox, on her shoulders, arms, and face, and which causes her intolerable itching. She was vaccinated 18 years ago, and has an eruption every summer of a similar kind to that which followed shortly after having been vaccinated. At these times she is greatly debilitated and looks thoroughly out of health. 1 have also just given up attending a gentleman who, having suffered from chronic eczema on the arms and legs, was recommended to try the experiment recorded in DR. Joseph Kidd'S book on Therapeutics (page 98), and get vaccinated with a view to cure. The result was a great in- crease of the disease, which almost drove him to despair. He is now nearly well. I have also seen an eruption, almost indistinguishable from smallpox, coming out on a patient round the site of the vaccine vesicle in a ring of several inches circumference. In this case no further harm resulted, but I am inclined to think that those cases which are said "not to take" are those in which the vital organs are most likely to be injuriously affected. - Dr. Edward Haughton. Letter I. The British Medical Journal, Aug. 18th, 1880. "THOUSANDS MORTALLY POISONED." Syphilis, scrofula, and probably every kind of blood poison can be taken by Vaccination, which, so far from being a protection against smallpox, seems to have been one of the chief causes of the late epidemics. It is never safe to take matter from another body into our own : we risk taking all its diseases. There is no doubt thousands have been mortally poisoned by Vaccination. - T. L. NICHOLS, M.D., F.as. Esoteric Anthropology. P. 186. "CANNOT BE WARRANTED AS SAFE." When a given (animal) body is possessed by one of them, (contagious diseases) no product of that body can be warranted as safe not to convey the infection. Presumption against every part and product of the diseased body is by everyone readily admitted, where there are vehement general symptoms of disease ; but it is important to know that not only in such febrile states, but even in states of chronic dyscrasy, and even at times when the dyscrasy may be giving no outward sign, the infected body may be variously infective. Thus the vaccine lymph of the syphilitic may possibly contain the syphilitic contagion in full vigour, even at moments when the patient who thus shows himself infective, has not on his own person any outward activity of syphilis. Similarly in regard to tubercular disease. - Mr. Simon, F.R.C.S. British Medical Journal, Dec. 13th, 1879. "MORE TO BE DREADED THAN smallPOX." In various classes, especially in large towns, not only was there doubt whether vaccination was effectual as a prevention, but there was an exceedingly great fear that diseases even more to be dreaded than smallpox itself were conveyed by vaccine matter. - Dr. Brewer, M.P. House of Commons. "MORE EVIL THAN GOOD." I have, in a forty years practice, seen far more evil than go' from vaccination, and therefore vaccinated my own children only in their third and fourth years, when they were hearty and j strong. But I would never have vaccinated them but for an indirect compulsion. - PROFESSOR BOCK, M.D., of Leipsic. Four-page Leaflets of this Series - No. 1 to 14. 1/- per Hundred, assorted, or 2d. the set of fourteen. The London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W. WM. YOUNG, Secretary. 