1881. COMPULSORY DISEASE: AN ADDRESS TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF ANTI-VACCINATORS, At Paris, December, 1880, BY H. D. DUDGEON, QUORNDON, LEICESTERSHIRE. 1881. GEORGE GREGORY. Book Merchant and Library Buyor. 5. Anrve Stret, BATH. COMPULSORY DISEASE: In Historical Sketch of the Rise and Spread of the Vaccine Dogma, ADDRESSED TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF ANTI-VACCINATORS AT PARIS, DECEMBER, 1880. BY H. D. DUDGEON, QUORNDON DUDGEON, The question is often asked, What were the causes of the high favour with which Dr. Jenner's discovery was received in aristocratic and theological circles throughout Europe? That it should be so suddenly and extensively patronized by lords and ladies, and yet at the same time be so coolly welcomed by the leading members of the medical profession, is a problem as yet not fully explained. And that a proposal so far-reaching as the infecting of the whole human race at the very spring and fountain of life with excrete matter from a beast should be accepted with the flimsiest pretence of inquiry and the slightest shadow of proof, indicates that, then as now, other causes were at work, more powerful than logic, and more persuasive than discussion. Let us for a moment try to realize the past, and place ourselves at the standpoint of a century ago. Young Jenner had then completed his apprenticeship to the village surgeon of an obscure hamlet in a secluded county, and, in common with many a medical student of the period, must have had his mind agitated by reports of the easy march to fame and fortune by successive adventurers in the promulgation of novel methods of administering the dubious practice of inoculation, which the scared parent feared alike to omit or to allow. It is on record that the surgeon of the embassy to Constantinople who, with the aid of the sprightly and handsome Lady Mary Montagu, introduced inoculation into England, received from the Court by the medium of the secret service fund the munificent sum of £1000 for bestowing that now illegal protection upon Frederic Prince of Wales. Sutton and others acquired large sums by their pretended improvements upon the original system - improvements carefully guarded from the popular gaze. Dimsdale is said to have been enriched with no less a sum than £10,000 for the inoculation of the Empress of Russia, and for watching her through the three weeks of pleuretic fever" which was its sequence or consequence.* To this was added the title of Baron, with a fascinating pension of £500 a year. An annual gratuity of about £600 had also been granted to Dr. Ingenhousz, with the rank of Counsellor of State, for inoculating the Archdukes of Austria and the Emperor's daughter. Each successive discoverer paraded his "new mode”; and consequently we are not surprised to find Dr. Jenner's plan described as the "new mode" and the "new inoculation." Historical records of the middle ages describe a frightfully un healthy state of the larger cities. Streets unswept and often unpaved, the receptacles of the most disgusting refuse ; houses constructed in the belief not even now wholly extinct, that "stinks are healthy;" and water procured fresh and sparkling from the nearest churchyard pump, were medieval proclivities too common to generate anxiety or create surprize in the public mind. We learn from our own historians that insanitary conditions prevailed even in the highest circles. As an example, the Portuguese ladies of the Court of Charles the Second "complained much for lack of good water to drink.” The general carelessness in sanitary matters and the apparent obtuseness of the medieval olfactory nerve are sufficiently indicated by the once fashionable practice of publicly wearing black spots on the frail countenance of beauty, which, as old Pepys informs us, were a contrivance to hide pimples. Even as late as 1740 inoculation was preferred to cleanliness. In that year Lord Tyrconnell declared in the House of Commons that "the streets in the British capital abounded with such heaps of filth as a savage would look on with amazement. Stench and putrefaction * See Gentleman's Magazine, 1801. (he added) are the cause of pestilential disorders. But this opinion was incongruous with parliamentary notions of the causes of infection, and the proposal of the noble lord to empower the magistrates to apply a remedy met with a decided and angry negative. In the dissolute courts whose pressure was then felt by Europe, the disfiguring diseases now known to be the result of gross neglect of the first principles of the laws of health were much dreaded. A generation unaccustomed to theories of the reign of law popularly attributed them to a mystic contagium : and the state of mind which could revel in the astrological figments of the Almanac gave willing credence to the well trumpeted protective, whose value was enhanced by its secrecy, and which, in common with other superstitions, gained strength and solidity by the very grandeur of its absurdity. Last century heard the passionate cry, "Let every soul be inoculated.” With equal vehemence has modern unwisdom expressed the wish, " Let all the world be vaccinated.” Lady Mary Montagu wrote in 1748, in the ripe years of her experience, "I find tar water has succeeded to Ward's Drop; it is possible by this time that some other quackery has taken place of that: the English are, easier than any other nation, infatuated by the prospect of universal medicine, nor is there any country in the world where the doctors raise such immense fortunes." The ordeal by which smallpox changed its qualities and became pure and beneficent in its passage through a cow, was long derided by the heads of the profession, but it suited the tastes of the leaders of society. Dr. Jenner's promises, indeed, extended far beyond a lifelong safeguard against a solitary complaint. In a grandiloquent letter to the Gentleman's Magazine he attempted to persuade the public that vaccination was protective against the plague; and a suggestion afterwards arose that it prevented or mitigated hydrophobia. It was boldly demanded that the cowpox was a panacea against the dog-distemper. The gullibility of the public was so great that Dr. Jenner was allowed to operate on the kennels of royalty: but the high monetary value of the stag and fox hound interposed a fatal obstacle to experiments in this direction. There are grounds, too, for the assumption that the original faith in the vaccine safeguard derived tremendous force from the implied suggestion that it was the guard of feminine and manly beauty against every enemy of the human face divine. "It is a melancholy reflection for human nature (says Lord Mahon), how easily and completely even the most intelligent classes of even the most intelligent people may sometimes be imposed upon. There seems some inherent proneness in mankind to great national delusions. The same men whom we find, as individuals, watchful and wary, not readily trusting professions, nor often misled by appearances, will as a body often swallow open-mouthed the most glaring absurdities and contradictions, and the press, which ought to be the detector of such delusions, will sometimes stoop to be their instrument." There still remains the problem of the eager acceptance of Jenner's crude empiricism by crowned heads and coronetted grandees, and by the highest dignitaries of church and state. Their apparently hurried and thoughtless reception had unquestionably a solid and determinate cause. From age to age the maxims of statesmen descend to their successors. “It was part of Pelham's character (says Lord Mahon) to weigh, never the validity, but only the prevalence of any popular opinion." A clue to the enigma may perhaps be more readily found in the peculiar state of Europe at the period of Jenner's introduction to the precincts of royalty. In 1798 fear lay on all the privileged possessors of place and power. To them the "Republic” was a name of terror: its promise of restoring to the human race the happiness of the Garden of Eden by the uprooting of every existing institution of society, enforced as it was at the cannon's mouth, had made states men grave. At this critical juncture, with Victory seated on the republican banners, Austria curtailed, Italy revolutionized, Ireland in rebellion and the British fleet in mutiny, the monarchs of Europe suddenly found themselves enabled to appear before the civilized world as the harbingers of the most magnificent of discoveries, compared with which the blessings of republican freedom gleamed shadowy and pale, and by whose occult and mysterious influence epidemic disease in its most revolting form was to dis appear at once and for ever. The wondrous protection received courtly sanction in 1799, and was speedily administered to armies and fleets: Lord Ellenborough's prediction that it would require repetition in seven years was treated with the utmost scorn : pulpit and platform rang with the blessings which monarchy and divine right were mercifully commissioned to grant, and the republican regenerators of the world were balanced and checked in their victorious career by a stronger superstition than any they had aimed to destroy. Napoleon* himself recognized the danger: with deep policy he showered praises upon Jenner, and felt compelled to permit France to receive the benefit of a foreign invention and an English boon: whilst America, on her principle of "making the best of both worlds," annexed the cowpox to the republic, and incautiously received the fatal gift in reliance on the judgment of a monarch who had dispelled the scepticism of the new world by the ingenious method of procuring an obedient House of Commons to stamp the discovery with that most unanswerable of arguments, the majestic present of £30,000. From contemporary history we learn that in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Jenner's claim was prejudged, and it may easily be imagined that the demanders of proof were denounced by the fashionable world as the enemies of the human race and that a savage attack on the anti-vaccinating doubter was mathematically equal to place and pension. In the earliest years of the century when as yet throughout Europe scarcely three per cent had sub mitted to the rite, vaccination was already claiming to have saved her millions, to have checked the contagion of smallpox and to have mitigated its fatality. Wherever she went a halo was spread Napoleon's 29th birthday was in 1798. This youthful conqueror, whose chosen home was the soldier's tent, whose worldly paradise was the battle-field, whose 4 pictures were maps, and whose "music" was the cannon's roar, what time was he to spare to investigations of foreign delusions? He who at St. Helena pro claimed his open disbelief in the "conjectural science" of medicine, what interest could he feel in the reports of the disease in the British cow ? around within which the 97 per cent of unvaccinated residuum reposed in comparative safety under the broad shadow of her protective shield. What wonder then that it should seem clear to energetic and emotional philanthropy that demands for proof were obstacles in the path to be cleared away at whatever cost. Why spare time for inquiry when an infallible safeguard was already placed in our hands? Lord Rous in 1802 avowedly acknowledged that the Committee of Inquiry would be merely formal, and that the question would be authoritatively settled by the minister before its sittings commenced. It is now contended that vaccination, like religion, is a subject on which none but experts are capable of forming a satisfactory judgment : yet the weightiest evidence on behalf of the cowpox in the Parliamentary Committee was that of the royal dukes of Clarence and of York, and the final decision was in accordance with the wishes not of experts but of princes. But, in truth, open, fair, and unprejudiced inquiry has never been allowed to meet the State Vaccine Dogma face to face. Free discussion has been parried and averted for eighty years, and is now as unwelcome as ever to the believing soul. Dr. Felix Niemeyer ventured to say that "no one receives thanks for combating a superstition," and his writings against the cowpox were confiscated and suppressed in more than one of the petty states of Germany. The British Vaccination Committee of 1871 adopted the peculiar method of examining the opponents of the cowpox before they listened to the claims and statistics of its supporters : the anti-vaccinators were thus precluded from answering, analyzing, and disproving the dogmatic statements of the Jennerian party; and medical ingenuity surpassed itself when it converted the protective shield thus thrown over the vaccine statistics into a proof that the outflanked enemy had no answer to make, and no disproof or denial to offer. But now at length the hour of free thought is tolling : the fallacious promises of excited courts and eager partisans have been tried in the scales and found wanting; the compulsory distribution from arm to arm of an undefined disease is no longer admitted to rest on the same grounds as the compulsory school-distribution of definite knowledge. Neglected reason is regaining her sway: and the doctrine of progress tells us, in open opposition to the empiricism of calf and cow, that smallpox is simply the leader among the filth diseases, and that if we would control it success fully, it must be attacked not by mysticism but by cleanliness. Municipal cleanliness sits in gilded letters on our flag: the suppression not of one but of all the zymotic diseases is our aim. Here lies the sharp division between us and our vaccine foes. " Health to the artisan and comfort in his home" is the dogma we uphold : and the most cheering aspect of the changing present and the immediate future is the bewilderment of our exasperated opponents. The "secular arm" on which they have so long relied, they now declare to be too mild. We hear the demand, " Let the child be taken from the mother's arms and vaccinated by force before her face!" We listen to the threat that the force majeure now confined to children shall be extended to the adult. Why not place in requisition the wheel of Calas, and risk the consequences of a repetition of the flaming stake of Cranmer? In 1787 a royal decree restoring civil rights to the protestants and non-catholics of France was denounced by the shortsighted clerical profession as an infraction of the coronation oath and an attack on the sacred principle of the indissoluble union of Church and State. In two years came the Revolution. The rights of man to the free use of his intellect are now being claimed by the anti-vaccinator, and his compulsory opponents of today are acting on the same feelings which troubled the shaking power of their theological predecessors. Their creed is too inquisitorial. The dogma of the transubstantiation of smallpox into vaccine lymph by passing through a cow is losing its hold on educated minds. May its fall be peaceful ! S. BARKER & Co., Printers, Bookbinders, &c., Wellington Street, Leicester, 