Vaccination Inquirer   HEALTH REVIEW.   THE ORBAS OF THE WSDOS SOOIETT FOR THE ABOLITIOW OF COXPULSORY TACOIXATIOS.   Ht WHO KNOWS ONLT HU OWN Slot OF TAB CASC, KNOWS LITTLE OF THAT. - J. Stuort Mill.   VOLUME THE FOURTH.   APRIL, 18 82, to MARCH,   LONDON: 114, TIOTOEIA STREET, WESTMI AKD EDWAED W. ALLEN, 4, AVE MARIA LANE. 1883. IV   kCog^   M"V   .> I   CONTENTS.   Paob  8. AsHBT- Completely Vaocinaied Ampthill 26  Thokab BiKBB- Testimoniea of Medical Men 80  Ampthill smallPox 66  H. BblstbadBelatead oernM Boflhby 166  BuG&HB BBTnu- smallFoz in the United States 'Skvj ... 115  W. L. Bbxjblz- Vaccination Spies in Schools 163  J. T. Bxcwa- Unjnst Vaccination Distraints 148  Dr. HvBBM BofiVB- Vaccination and its Promoters in  Belgium 124  Obosob BoiTB^Deflnitions Beqoired and Befosed ... 65  Vaccination Spies in Schools 127  A. M. Bbowv, M.D.- a New Hypothesis 162  Ahdbbw Bvcraxajs, M.D.- Letters to Eentigem 23, 61  Alvbbd Gabfbbtbb, M.D.- Letter to P. A. Taylor,  MP QO  B. Bbudbitbll Cabtbb, F.B.C.S.- On Vaccination ... 96  Lord CcjvTOir- Vaccination Statistics 76  Miss F. Powbb Cobbb- Whither is Pasteoxism to  iVafx Ha r "" " ..• ..• .¦" ¦". ... ... 20  A Use for Fat Women 116  Archdeacon Collbt- The Position in Natal 139  W. J. CoLLnra. M.D. - Hungarian Strictures on Pasteur 6  Vaceino Tubercle 10  Vaccino-Pyasmia 14  5<y"k"ela" from Vaccination 107  Vaofline Disaster in Algiers 137  The Norwich Inquiry 157  Bar. HoBBBT Cot.i.TB"- Joins the London Society ... 61  Rer. J. M. Cox-"-?iiddington Ouardiaos 174  B. T. Cbaio- Origin of Smallpox 146  Dr. P. A. DBSJiJ">nrB- The Syphilised French Soldiers 80  The Hon. F. Douglass- Letter from 200  H. D. DuDOBOir- BoTine Mania in United States ... 11  Is Disinfection a Myth? 99  ReviTal of Ancient Theories 31  smallPox in West Indies 66  Automatic Humanity 66  How Prestige is Worked 84  Dr. Alfred Carpenter 91  Defeat of Vaocmators in Switzerland 94  Dr. A. Carpenter's Logic 106  The Truth about Switzerland lio  Dr. Hayle's Cases Ill  Smallpox at Cape of Good Hope Ill  Chanee of Opinion ... 114  Anti-Vaccinators and their Enemies 123  Pasteur's Insurance Companr 129  The Medical Check in Leicester 140  A Startling Disclosure 147  Great Panic at the Cape 182  Mrs. E. C. W. Elkt- Deyeloping Medical Despotism ... 62  B. Fbbousoit, M.P.- Letter fVom 84  M. H. FutTOHBB- Deaths from Bovine Virus 14  Gbobob S. Gibbs, F.S.S.- Dr. Guy on Smallpox and  Vaccination 79  Population of London and Smallpox 140  Waltbb R. Habwbit- Defence at Uxbridge 16  C. H. Hopwoon, Q.C., M.P.- John Sayage of Kinsale 68  The Syphilised Zouaves 68  The Norwich Inquiry 166  Jambs Howabd, M.P.- Letter from 99  C. M. Huirr- Vaccination in CaUfomia 83  J. Bbhtdlbt Jaxbs, M.R.C.S.- Perils of Public Vaooi-  nation 166  Dr. KLBDr- OnVacdnCharbonneux , ... 112  Dr. Lobiksbb- Infection and Disinfection 167  E. M. Ltitch, M.A.- AFirs^CaseatBeigate 75  Dr. Mackbitzib- Do they indeed believe 129   Paob  H. C. MoWnoBTBB-Of Many, One 32  M. D. Maifita. M.B.C.8.- Where is the Standard ? ... 66  Dr. Sweeting's Memorandum 96  Dr. G. H. Mbbkbl- Experiences 77  Vaccin"tion of Emigrants 167  T. H. MootB- Smallpox in West Indies 130  Prof. F. W. Nbwicav- Beasons against Compulsion ... 146  J. M. Nbwfham- Position in New South Wales ... 100  Dr. R. K. NoTBSnature and Vaccination 27  Experiences gi  niuBions as to Vaocmation 146  A. 0'CoiriroE,M.P.- Letter from uo  Dr. OroTXAinr- International Society of Anti-Vacci-  n"*o" 194  ... 78  ... 195  ... 128  ... 115  ... 200  ... 61  ... 82   W. W. Pabxiit- Letter to W. H. Leatham, M.P.  Dr. Pbbbias- Opinion upon Vaccination  Mjss E. Stuabt Phblps- Letter ftom  Bey. T. B. PiooT-Smallpox in Hayti  B. RBByB- Southwark Anti- Vaccination Society  Dr. E. M. RiPLBT- Vaccination in United States  Dr. C. W. RoHKBB- Australian Experience  P. SoxDCSHAWanother Case at Nottingham  P.asiUBWtdM-Whatisproved  Swedish Statistics  P. A. Tatlob, M.P.- but to Bepeal Compulsory Vaccination 12  Death from Vacctnation at Holloway 68  The Norwich Disaster 74  2!^^J; ^S^roenter R9  The Ghastly Risk m  Letter to Brighton Society 199   128 ISO   WiLT,TAX Tbbb- Notes of a TraveUer  The Swiss Victory  Vaccination vemuM Sanitation ... Resistance the Price of Victory ... Vaccine DisMter in Algiers French Soldiers  Our Adversaries and Ourselves ...  A Historical FaUacy  Compulsion in Switzerland   68, 98, 122, 153  • •• •¦• he  ¦ •• ••• ¦•fl  ••• * • • X *'  • •• ¦•• lOrl  IQI  ¦ • • " • a J 'Vn  • >• ••• A<R}   Sir R. TBifPtB- Smallpox and Vaccination in India Prof. A. VooT- Deta'ls of Swiss Victory  WiLBBB Walub- Vaccination in California  S. J. Wbst- His Persecution  Albxawdbv Whbblbb- 'Kracanlay and Smallpox  EUis's Diseases of Childrwi  Dr. Pearoe's Vital SiiHdiot  Registrar-Groeral's Renopt ... \\\  Xa FaeetfM, by Dr. BoSns  ^^'^^^""¦¦- ^**"" *o P">^- A. Buchanan, M.D.... 6. 23  Dr. Peter Stewart and Dr. W. B. Carpenter 25  Dr. George Pearson 67  A Homicidal Article ;:; 91  Broenenoe "<!rMi" Logic 100  A Nice Cup of Tea I 154  Newcastle smallPox : a Common Story ' 16^  smallPox Displaced and Eeplaoed ... ::.' 175  Vaccination in 1863 197  Dr. Albx. WitDBB- a View of Vaccination  Smallpox in the United States '   100 93 66 16  9  11 29 57 97   Dr. Gabth WiLKonioir- Counsel on Our War Death of Miss Rowan  WiLLiAK Youirfl- Official Cookery  The Mexboroufirh Guardians  Deaths from Vaccination and Chieken-Pex SmalLPox and Vaccination in India ... Human mrstt* Medical Perception Certificates of Death ... BmaU-Pox in the Navy, 1831   21 61  28  146  52  08  64  7.H  107  1"2  199   .   • • "¦  GHi]num:i]r.Siir Fbakcisco 60  Cost of Hedioal Department of Looml OoTernment  AOaM ... .,, ,,, ,,m ••• ••• •••  Co0te in Bdinbnrigli ... ... ... ... ••• •••   lao  140   ¦¦" •••    DlATH OF NUBSB FKOX smallPOX  Death of Re-Taeeinated None from smallPox  Does Vaoaination injure the Teeth?  Dundee, a Beginning at  Donlop, Proeecation of  BDurBusoK, PBOBxoimon or  Gboboia, Oovfulsiov nr  Oroop of Bebels ... ... ... ... ... ."•  InuBijrci AQkism Yxccjxjltioh ...  LxxcBSTU, Closubx at  ff Position at ... ..• ••• ••• •¦•  Revolt at ... "•• ••• ••• •••  Proteoutions at  Befuaal of Ghuardian to distrain  Lery/lffr. J. Hiam, Leetnie by  London Workhouse Vaocinaiion  Lynch, Mr. B. M., Prosecution of  MoTBKXHT or Uin^D Statu  I^ATAIi liBAQDB ... ... ... ... ... ...  Ivew Despotism ... ... ... .•• ••• •••  New Bngland League  Obdbb to TACcnrATB Iittajits nr Wobkhovsxs Outrage at Bedford  Pavoius, St., Ybstbt on Vaccivatiok  Pastenrisni in Ohio ... ...  Pity the Poor Prisoners I  Poor of Fans ... ... ... ••• ... ...  Prosecutors cannot be Judges  Protest against Large Marks  RBA80ViBI.a MAaiBTBATBS  Renner, Dr., at Victoria Street  Besistanoe to Bvil Law  SaVT MbAT Ain> DXBBASB  fatwrd4tff "Review on London smallPox  Scottish Form of Notice  Sensible Ouardians ... ... ... ... ...  Snow, Dr. Bdwm M. ... ... ••• ... ...  Spinzig, Dr., Death of  State Asaistanoe to M. Pasteur  Switzerland. Vaccination Lsw in  " Fall of Compulsory Vaccination in ...   '/   Paob   ... 16  ... 67  ... 83  ... 81  ... 190  ... 31  ... 67  ... 118  26, 64  ... 18  ... 80  ... 138  ... 1P6  ... 196  ... 187 183,190  ... 126  ... 110  ... 148  ... 126  ... 128  ... in  ... 1"  ... Ifln  ... 146  ... 141  ... 60  ... 66  ... 183  ... 167  ... 148  ... 27  ... 129  ... 144  ... 148  ... 144  ... 143  ... 16  ... 121  ... 67  ... 148   Tatlob, Mr. P. A., Skxtcb ov ... 100  VaochtxP What is 144  Wabd, W. GiBSOir, Dbath ov 127  Annual Meeting of the London Society for the Abolition   of Compulsory Vaccination  Speeches of -  C. H. Hoowood, Q.C., M.P.  William Tebb  Rer F. Rowhmd Young, D.D.  J. HiamLery  Mrs. Anna Kinesford, M.D.  Dr. W. J. Collins  Thomas Baker  Letters from -  Lord Clifton  Signor GrysanAwv*ki Professor F. W. Newman ...  F. Davis. Jun  Sir Jervoise C. Jervoise ...  Dr. Oidtmaon  Dr. J. Emery Coderre ...  ConTezsadone   36   86 40 44  46 46 47 48   4f^ 40 49 60 60 69 60  60   NOTBS OF the MONTH.  State BstabUshment of Animal Vaccination - Proctor on Living Death Germs - Last Revelation of Science - Duchess of Connaught at Bagshot Park - Bscott o. Beck - Insolence on the Bench- The Peculiar People -The Peabody Buildings- The Pastenrian Crases- Vaccination in the United States 1^   Dr. W. B. Carpenter in Nineteenth Cnt^ry- smallPox I>f"th.rate, Past and Present- Hospital Nurses - Diverse Infection of Fevers- smallPox in Scotland - Brysipelas in Vaccination- Mr. P. A. Taylor and Dr. W. B. CBdrpenterInoculation for Phthisis- Mr. . Corrie Grant's Appointment annnal 'Meeting of liOndon Society ... ... ... ... ... ...17~20  Annual Meeting of London Society - Prof. F. W. Newman's Criticism - ^Dr. Buchanan's Absurd Statistics renan on Pasteur - Dr. Martin as Cagliostro- Mr. P. A. Taylor's Bill in Parliament 33-36  Mr. P. A. Taylor's Bill deferred- Dr. W. A. Gny on London smallPox - Date of Decline in London  smallpox - London a transformed City- Dr. W. B. Car- penter discovers a Mistake- Mr. P. A. Taylor's AnswerScottish Vaccination and smallPox- Sweet-, lug's Memorandum- Dream of the Vaccinator"-r BritiA Me^iecd Jowmal on Unsound Doctrine - The Registriff-General on smallPox before Vaccination- The Vaeeination Inquirer, weekly 53-66  Opposition to Mr. P. A. Taylor's BiU- InjnriMi and Deaths from Vaccination at Norwich- Rights of Anti-Vaccinators under Prosecution- Finnish Faith in Vaccination - Kilmarnock  smallpox  - Death-rate in Kilmarnock unafiFected- The Calf-Lymph E"ttab- lishment - Mr. Corrie Grant at Bastbonme - TTuiversal Public Vaccination- Insurance against  vaccination uon ... ... ••• a.. ... ... ... ...otf- fS  Compulsory Vaccination repealed in Switserland - Conrradiotions of Vaccinators - Vaccination vi et armie - Dr. John Scott's Fancies- Demand for Universal Public Vaccination - Lancet on Vaccination in Soot- land- False Certificates of Death 8fr-88  Norwich Inquiry- G^^ow Kerald on the Tnquirv - Nothing Singular in Norwich TMsasters - ^Dr . Mit-chell's proposed Variolous Tent- Dr. Hayle on Cal'-Lymnh - Dr. Littlejohn on Edinburgh Smkll-Pox- The Un vaccinated  in Wednesbury - Dr. A. Carpent"tr as Controversialist - Vaccine Fire-Eaters - smallPox Epidemic of 1871-78- smallPox and Vaccination as Protectives- Dr. A. Carpenter on Unholj and Unhealthy lives 101-101^  Prospective Accommodation for London smallPox - Sir R. Alcock on the Extermination of smallPox - Smalt- Pox an alternative Form of Mortalityanti-Vaccinators specially Sanitarians - Mr. Herbert Spencer on American Docility- Pwtristencv ct Error- Dr. Tidy on Unvaccinated Mortality - The Sites of Disease - Captain Gslton on Localities of FeverCost of Vaccination at the Calves' TemplereiecHon of  vaccination at Keighley - Leicester following Keighlev - Price of Public Vaccination- Delay of Norwich Report ... ... ... ... ... 117-181  Report on Injuries and Deaths at Norwich- Dr. Bucha- nan's Commentary- Newspapem on the Report - Dodson on the Algiers DisasterDr. G. Wvld again - Calf-Lymphing- Dr. Warlomont's Qnaekeries - ^Mr. Waddy at Edinburgh- Mr. Pearxon Hill's Malice- Dr. George MaoDonald's Fable- Congress at Berlin 133-136  Expenses of Norwich Inquiry - Bavarian Statistics - Unwarrantable Credit for Vaccination re-vaccination no Protection - Sir Charles Dilke succeeds Mr. Dod- son - Discretion of Magistrates - Right of Anti-Vaccinators to be represented in Court - St. Panares Guardians and Vaccination - Compulsory Vaccination abolished in B&le-Ville- Mr. Sivmoer Wells magni- fies Vaccination- That Blessed Word Pasteur I 149-168  Mr. Daniel Grant, M.P., at St. Pancras- Sir C. Dilke at Chelsea- Mr. Firth, M P.. on Dilke-Position of Affairs at Leicester - Tnquent* at Iwliuffton and Nottingham- "Not a bit," sav" Dr. Ba^Urd- Dr. Collins on the Norwich Inqniry - Death at Queen Charlotte's Hospital - Mr. Herbert Spencer on American Sub- missiveness - Abolition of Vaccination in the Swiss Army - German Inquiry- GmoAitf and the Fount of Salvation- Transmission of Disease by Animal Vae- eination - James Bnrman's CaseSir 'William Har- court's Assurance- Dr. Barry at Derby ... 169-174  Dunlop and St. Pancras Vaccination- Mf. Hopwood and Sir C. Dilke- Dr. Buchsaan and 18.000 Childr^- Character of the unvaccinated  - Distribntion of Txm- don smallPox- smallPox at Ampthill- Dr. Oidtmann's ManifestoInfluence of Vaccination on Sm*ll- Pox - Mr. Whitbread, M.P.. on Compulsion- Mr. John Moriey at Newcastle - ^Dr. Garth Wilkinson and Mr. Newton- Meeting at Bermondsey- Dr. Browning at VictorU Street 185-188   .   PABAGBAPH8.   • ¦¦   • ••  • ••   • ••  • ••   ¦ ¦ •  ¦ • •   AicisiOAif DOOIUTT Amai^ca, Position is Ancient Inooal"tion AnckUnd, N. Z. ...   SanHerqfLigH  Bedford, Triumph at  Bedfordshire Opinion  Bell, Dr. John  BUkewa^, Be7. Bennett  Boiton Journal  Brereton, Dt  Bright's, Jacob, Argument  Browning, Dr  Bachanan, Dr. A., Death of ...   Cabot vemu Stsb"a.ob... Oalcutta, 0maU-pQx in ... Oanine Vaccination  Oapri  Oatalogae of Anti-Vaecination Literature  Challn, Bey. Mr., 1816  %;iuoago, Compolsion in  ClifCon, Lord  Oloud of Witnessea  Cologne Congress  Collins, Dr., Iiectare by  Compulsory Medicine  Confession and Imputation  Conferences, Montklj  Confession in a Comer  Congress, latemational  Consistency  Coat of Animal Yaodnation  Courteous Communications   • • •  ¦ ¦ •  ¦ •t  • •"  • kt •••  • ••  ¦ ••  • ••   • ••  • ••   • ¦•  ¦ "•  • • •  • ••  • ••  ¦ ¦ •   ..t   ¦ • ¦  ¦ •s  ¦ • •  • ••  • ••  • ¦•  • ¦ •  • • •  • ••  • ¦ ¦   • •s  • • ¦    DAXLoroTOir Democratic Despotism  Dewsburj  Diarrhoea from V vaccination   Disenchantment in Jenner's Lifetime  Drysdale, Dr  Double Action of smallPox  Babtbousith  JSOnOf JLn9 *.. ... ... ... ...  Brysipelatous Penalty  Ksoape from Justice  BTCsaam Letter  Evidence, Collection of  Exactly what We think.  Excuse, Very Unreasonable  Byes have they, but see not  FXBLB DiSPOSBO OB  Failure of Vaccination in 1817  Faithful Saying  Familjf Doctor  FcTors and 8m*ll-P(c)x  Freeman, Mr. Alfred  OAIVBBOBOUaH Lbaoitb  G-eneration of smallPox by Vaccination Gentle Critics Guy's Statistics ...    • •• •••   •••  • ••  • •a  • ••    • ••   • •e   Haokvbt ... .M Hackney Guardians Halifax, smallPox in ...  HeavyOofts  HiU, Bowland, 1807 ...  Hint for Us  HomcBopathio Hospital... Huddersfleld    • ea  • ••   "••  • •• ••fl  • • • ¦ ••  • ••   ICBLAITD  Incantation. Form of Infection, Who yield to It Ireland, Vaccination in...   • ••  • • t   • ••  • • •   • •• • ••   Jacob, Joshua, Diath ov ... Jerroise, Sir J. C, Pamphlet by Judicial Persecutors ... Justifiable Solicitude ...   ... ...   ... ...   ...   Kxicbbblbt Pbovits   Paob  ... 132  ... 26  ... 165  4  ... 28  ... 143  ... 84  ... 128  ... 184  ... 83  99, 116  ... 131  ... 180  ... 8S  ... 63  ... 78  ... 76  ... IS  ... S7  ... 32  ... 16  ... lis  ... vU  16, 67, 82  ... 30  ... 83  ... 165  ... 116  ... 200 145, 162  ... 82  ... 28  ... 181  ... 08  ... 76  ... 200  ... 127  ... 78  ... 198  ... 76  ... 195  ... 100  ... 168  ... 68  ... 123  ... 100  ... 60 8a  ... 27  ... 83  ... 85  ... 144  ... 81  ... 66  ... 84  ... 131  ... 26  ... 30  ... 81  ... 148  ... 184  ... 30  ... 131  ... 31  ... 143  ... 81  ... 96  ... 132  ... 148  ... 131  ... 96   200 68  197 30  138   Pabaobaths -  Laitoaskibb Bajtd Leicester, Hatred of Vaccination " Corrections as to ... Lewes, Death from Vaccination at  Light Breaking in  Logic of Compulsion  Lymph Is. a Tube  Madbid Mobtalxtt  Malignant smallPox  Masquard, Bug^ne  Massachusetts, Opposition in ... Massachusetts, Morement in ...  Medical Bspionage  Medical Fm$  Medical Trade Unions  Member of Society of Friends  Milner, B. AUop  Morality of Medical Profession Moses and His Mother  NaUonal Re/brmer  Naval Officer's Testimony  Negro Vaccine  Newest Discorery in Bacilli ...  New South Wales  New York, smallPox in  Nineteenth Century  Non-Variolous smallPox Norwich ... ...  Norwich Inquiry...  Notable Fact  Notification of Infectious Disease  Nottiufl^am  Nurse Fabla   • ••   • • •    •••   • ¦"  • ••  • • •   • •¦ •••  • ••  • ••   • ••   • ••  • • t   ¦ ••  • as  • ••  • ••  • ••  • ¦s   OVB ADTBB8ABIB8   ••• see   FaBOBAB, Qft.f SOCTBTT  Paris on Medical Superstition...  Pearoe's Vital Statittiee  Penalties Mitigated  Petitions ... ... ... ...  Piper, Dr. B. B. ... ... ...  Process of Finding Out  Prosecutor Invoked  "Bbasoitablb Excusb"  Becurrent Variola  Bidden, Col., 1807  Bochdaie smallPox  Bushden League  Bv. Pabobab Mbbtoto  Sawdust for Tea...  Scarifications, Death from Scarlet Fever for smallPox ... Bewer Ghw ... ... ...  Sheffield Hospital  Shot at Gibson Ward  Siljestr5m's Momentoue QiMsfwm  smallPox made Milder  Smithers, Mr. John  Snell, Mr.jLecture by  Soap and Water  Spencer, Herbert, 1851   • ••  • ••  • ••  • •< e""  • ¦• •••  • ••   ¦ • •   • " •  • ••  • ••  • •• ¦ ¦•   • > "  • ••  • ••  • ¦•  • ¦ •  • •" • ¦• " "•   • ••  • ••  • ••  • "•  • ••  • • ¦  • •• *¦•  • ••  • •¦  • ¦¦  • ••  • • ¦   • ••  • a i  • ••  • ••  • ••  ¦ ¦ ¦   • • •  ¦ ¦ • • •• •••   • ••  • ••  • ••  • ••  ¦ ••  • ••  ¦ • •   •••  • ••   • ••  • ••   The Theoeopkiet  Thorough-paoed Advocate Tborowgood's Contempt Tobacco vereue Vaccine ...  Tompsitt, G^rge  Torquemada and Pasteur  Trufh-eeeheTfTht  Twenty-one Years After   VAConTATioir if 1855...  Vaccine Inoculation, Impromptu on... Vacoino-Pmrigo   • •s   • ••  • " •   Waostaff, Bbt. Fbbdbbzok Wanted a Clean Doctor... Well done, Amos Booth !  VHiatNextP  Where is Safety to be Found Which shall We credit ? Wiseman on Vaccination With what We strive ... Wolverhampton Case ...   *•• are  • • a   • ••   • ••  • ••   • ••   • • •  • ••   • ¦•  • aa  • ••   • ••  • at   Paob  . 181 . 109 . 148 . 81 68 . 14 8   . 20O  . 78  . 116  . U  . 198  . 14  . 100  . 76  . 184  . 174  . 63  . 184  . 64  . 166  . 81  . 114  . 99  . 16  . 82  . 11  . 188  . 148  . Ill  . 116  . 81  . 67  67  . 28 16, 60 . 124 92 99 61 76   • ••  ••s   84, 118  ... 181 28  ... 114  ... 168  ... 166  ... 116  68  ... 162  ... 116  82  ... 116  ... 128  ... 100  ... 100  ... 67  ... 12  82  ... 189  ... 78  ... HI  ... 11  ... 81  ... 148  ... 65  .." 68  ..t 84  ... 200  ... 81  ... 127  ... 148  ... 28  ... 82  ... 28  ... 199  ... 16  ... 63 72,84   • ¦ /'  He who knowi onfy his own side of the oase, knows little of th"t.- J[. Sij^A^a^axi. ^^  Prejudice, which sees whit it pleases, oumot see what is p]ain.~AuBBiT DsVisi.V AY ^ 4 J934   v\   Dl^e Ifatcittatimt Itt   find ^f£e£il±k SteULem.   Vol. IV., No. 37.]   APRIL, 1882.   [Price Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.   At last the Vaccinists have openly divided - openly confessed that Vaccination may be one of two things, a better or a worse, a safe or a dangerous.' Government is now fully committed to First and Second Glass Vaccination. Notices have been issued to the registrars of births and deaths throughout the' kingdom for delivery to every informant upon the registration of a birth, that parents, instead of being compelled to have their children vaccinated' in the ordinary manner, may at their option have the rite performed with ''animal lymph" on resorting to certain designated stations. This course of action may render our work more difficult by providing means for a double shuffle, which will be freely practised. When disaster or smallpox follows ordinary Vaccination, it will be said, ** Yes ; a sad mistake has been made. The child ought to have been vaccinated with animal lymph." And when disaster or smallpox follows animal vaccination, it will be said, " It is all owing to that new-fangled rubbish. ' There is no vaccination to compare with that from a healthy child's arm." That is how the dodge will be worked. Nevei^ theless there is compensation. It is of great importance to have our adversaries split in two, with one aide discrediting the other. Nor is it improbable that in the close attention that will be directed to the results of the double practice, the failure of both will be made more and more conspicuous. Our advantage lies everywhere in what makes for ezanoination, discussion, and publicity; even as the dii9creet officials, whose interest consists in the conservation of the rite, have all along deprecated the agitation of the calf-lymphers as prejudicial to the maintenance of the Jennerian mystery. Animal Vaccination has been conceded - not because Dr. Buchanan and his staff have any faith in it over the existing practice, but as the less of two' evils - as a means of suppressing a clamour that was becoming dangerous. There remains the possibility of yet another cry, naipely, for  horsepox . It is not to be forgotten that Jenner started with hoise-pox cowpox, and that   in the fulness of his experience he dismissed the cow, and pronounced borse-pox ''the true and genuine life-preserving fluid." Mr. Joseph Hands^ a pupil of the Immortal, has recently reminded the public that perfect security from smallpox consists not in inoculation with cowpox, but with  horsepox  ; and when the alternative vaccinations now offered by Government prove equally futile, there may be a final rally to  horsepox . As an American says : " Vaccination has got to die, but it will not die easy."   Thebb is an article in the ComhiU Magtmne for March, Dr  " Living Death-Germs," by Mr. R. A. Proctor, which is worth iieading as an exhibition of the possibilities of absurdity under the name of science. Undeterred by Dr. Richardson's humorous protest against the manufacture of spic-and-span new diseases to avert the perils of infection, Mr. Proctor boldly avows his expectation :  " That typhus, scarlet fever, diphtheria, and a host of other ailments [sic, but not in italics] which are more or less certainly known to be due to the presence of living organisms in the blood or tissues, would be treated as we now treat smallpox. People inoculated with the specific ' matter * for each of these diseases, once perhaps in every six or seven years, would be safe from them, or safe, at any rate, from severe attacks. Epidemics of such diseases would be rendered almost impossible ; but when they occurred, sensible people could find protection^ even as they now find protection from an epidenuc of smallpox."   Had we written this, it would have been stdd we were jeering at " science " ; but lo ! it is delivered by Mr. Proctor, in good faith as serious probability ! ' "What a prospect for doctor-craft periodical inoculations always going on to meet the risk of " a host of ailments ! " for, as Mr. Proctor says:  " Dangers lurk where none would suspect them, and where only the keen eyes of the trained science worker can find them. The poison-germ may attack through the alimentary canal in the food we eat, through the lungs in the air we brenthe, as well as directly throufrh the Blood current. Diseases and death may lurk in a dress, a child's   .   to J, a lock of hair, a letter, or a carpet. Neither time nor distance avails to destroy the fatal infection/'   Dr > ever witchcraft itself, in its most extravagant development, impose such a nightmare upon humanity? Danger, disease, and death lurking everywhere, with a doctor at hand hearing salvation in periodical and systematic inoculations I Such is the last revelation and prophecy of " Science/' In a world haunted with such terrors there would be a summary answer to the question, Is life worth living? Nor health, nor length of days would have any charm on terms 80 despicable. The entire course of zymotic disease in any conceivable severity would be infinitely preferable.  The basis of this marvellous speculation, as to the new and multiplex salvation " from a host of ailments,** is vaccination, the preventive of  smallpox . It is the egg from which issues the monstrous brood. Mr. Proctor assumes the claim made for vaccination as indisputable, and with such notes of ignorance that we are inclined to conjecture that his knowledge of the matter in question commenced with writing about it. For example, he charges anti-vaccinators with \m- concern ''for the terrible mischiefs which have followed the attempts of .their followers to escape from what they call legalised poi^ning." Will Mr. Proctor specify the "terrible mischiefs," giving place and date? Again, he charges some with arguing ''that vaccination has done more, mischief than good, because so many weakly lives, which would otherwise have succumbed to the unmodified disease, have been saved." Will. Mr. Proctor adduce evidence either of this saving of weakly lives, or of any one having questioned the good of saving theniP Again, he is pleased to say that when "there are outbreaks of malignant pmall-pox, those who have seemed to agree with the anti-vaccinators are found singqlarly ready to seek the protection which vaccination afEords ; and in America they are not only willing to be vaccinated themselves in such cases, but eager to pass municipal enactments for compulsory vaccination." It is not for us to answer for those who may object to vaccination out of indolence, but it is simply incifedible that any who have discovered the inutility of vaccination 'and its perils, can surrender themselves to the superstition, and still less assist in subjecting their fellow-citizens to the cruel imposture.   The Qermists, if so they niay be clJled, fail to set forth the full benefits of their prospective   discoveries. The Duchess of Oonnaught has been nearly poisoned with sewei^gas at Bagshot Park. The Duke's house' is entirely new, erected at a cost of from thirty to forty thousand pounds, but the sewers were ingeniously arranged for the diffusion of their vapours throughout the mansion. The inmates were consequentiy afflicted ''with sore-throat, diarrhoea, and a general sense of heaviness and malaise, these ailments cMefly affecting new-comers." Matters at last came to a crisis with puerperal fever in the case of the Duchess, and the suspicions of her attendant, Dr. Playfair, being excited, Mr. Rogers field was called in and revealed a state of affairs with which the public have been duly astonished ; proving once more how possible it is to live in a very fine house, and be no better off in sanitary respects than a reddent in a slum. But here is the point. Bagshot will be placed in the hands of the sanitary engineers, and several hundreds of pounds will be spent on the reconstruction of drains and phimber-work. Why do not the Qermists intervene, and say, -'"Hold! to what purpose is this waste? We shall presentiy have ready an inoculation for every disease, and then sewer-gas or any stench will be of no consequence whatever, save fes offensive to smell. Expenditure on what are called sanitary works will soon be accounted superstitious follies. The safeguards of human and animal health will in future be found in the Inoculator's Box."   The case of Escott v. Beck was brought to a settiement After a surprising and arbitrary fashion. The rabid attack of the Rev. E. J. Beck on Mr. Escott, in the Rotherhithe Vestry, will not have been forgotten. Mr. Escott, acting under advice, instituted an action against his defamer, and Mr. Charles Russell, Q.C., M.P. for Dundalk, was retained for the prosecution. When the case came on, Mr. Russell did not like his brief. Mr. Escott had no faith' in vaccination, whilst Mr. Russell's fflith was unlimited ; consequentiy, Mr. Russell's syinpathies were iMth the defendant, Beck, rather' than with the plaintiff, Escott. The Parson was willing to express regret for langusge he used under misinformation, and to pay Mr. Escott £20, and Mr. Russell inusted on the compromise being accepted. If it were not, he would throw up the prosecution. Mr. Escott felt himself cornered. He remonstrated in vain, and most unwillingly was compelled to submit. Mr. Russell appeared in court, and announced that an arrangement had been come to ; saying that though Beck had accused Escott of "being a murderer, and worse 'than a murderer, he was bound to admit that the   .   drcumatances justified some streDgth of language ** and this RussdU said with a handsome fee in his pocket as Escott^s advocate ! The case is a singularly hard one. When a counsel shrinks from the defence of his dienti and compels a compromise in the interest of his adversary, we may measure the strength of the prejudice under which the opponents of vaccination have to lahour. It is the usual defence of barristers, when charged with insincerity, that they do not speak for themselves, but for their clients ; but this detachment of mind must,' it seems, not be pressed too far. It would scarcely be reasonable to expect an ardent .Conservative to defend a Radical journalist, or an earnest Catholic a Protestant libeller, with much energy. On the same principle, when anti-vaccinists have to seek the assistance of justice by proxy, they will do well to avoid zealots on the other side, like Mr. Charles Russell.   loNoitANT and lawless magistrates are not uncommon, but a more flagrant example of justice in burlesque would be difficult to produce than the behaviour of Mr. Bernard Halo^ as chairman of the East Grinstead Petty Sessions. A number of worthy tolk were brought before him on March 13 for ref usmg to have their, children vaccinated, and as Mr. Hale is chairman of the Board of Guardians, they saw before them their prosecutor and their judge. It is no matter for surprise that a .man who had not sens^ enough to feel thiait such a double function was inconsistent with English equity, should exhibit little regard for the claims of parental affection and courtesy. " Here's, the law,*" he said. '^It must be enfprced. It takes no account of conscience.'' To IJkir. Charles Foster, who compluned that he had had one child severely injured by vaccination, he made answer, ''It's all nonsense. You must obey the law. If you say you won't have your child vaccinated, that 's enough. We cannot listen. You must pay the penalty of £1 and costs." On receipt of some insolence of the like order, Mr. Mark Ovenden made the proper observation, *^ I do not think Mr.' Hale ought to sit in this case ; he . is prosecutor and judge too ; " whereon Injustice Hale had the impudence to reply, " You are an impertinent fellow ! I shall commit you, if you say any more. If you don't mind what you are about, you will go into that -door the lock-up." What a pity it is that some power was not at hand to drag the real o^ender from the bench, and consign him to the lock-up. Such are the freaks occasionally witnessed in this England of ouiid, which ought to make us. lees Pharisaical when we hear of   similar travesties of justice in countries to which we consider our ovm immeasurably superior. Hale's case, moreover, is vastiy aggravated by the fact that he did not sit alone on the East Grinstead bench. He had for associates Colonel Moore, Mr. C. H. Gatty, Mr. J. E. Esdaile, and Mr. A. C. J. Fisher, who apparentiy were as ignorant of law as himself, or were too cowardly to call him to order. The sentences pronounced by Hale as Guardian, in the character of Justice, are all irregular, and ought to be quashed, and the penalties refunded. Wd trust the Home Secretary may read him such a lesson as may not require repetition.   Another member of the Peculiar People has been under prosecution for dispensing with medical sdvioe. A lad of eight, named Morby, resident at Woolwich, died of virulent smallpox. An inquest was held, an^ a charge of manslaughter preferred agiunst the parents, which was tried before Mr. Justice Hawkins. Dr. Sharpe who made the post-mortem examination, in answer to the question, ''Would the boy's life have been prolonged if medical skill had been called in? " sud, " Probably ; but I would rather put it in this way that the chances of the boy*s life would have been increased by having medical advice." The jury found Morby guilty, but in the Court for the Conaderation of Crown Cases Reserved the conviction was quashed. We are not concerned to answer for the tenets., of the Peculiar People. They , place no trust ' in medical men, but they do trust in vaccination. The lad Morby was vaccinated; and fortified with the rite in unquestioned perfection, he died of virulent smallpox ! The case was recorded in all the newspapers, yet not a comment was made on the conspicupus failure of the vaunted prophylactic. Why this silence? Suppose Morby had been ynvaccinated, should we not have had all the taps of editorial indignation in full flow? the Standard vying with thq Daily News, and the Times with t£e Advertiser in furious denunciation of the malignant idiots who .sow distrust concerning the salvation brought to light by the immortal Jenner. We often hear of English fair-play ; yet such is English play, and play of which few EiigUshmen appear to be ashamed.   The Peabody Buildings are a great and growing London institution to which all wish prosperity who recognise the importance of convenient and sanitary quarters for the families of workingmen. In looking at the rent-book of one of the   .   ' tenants in Blackfriars-road, we found this set forth as Rule 1 :  " No application for rooms will be entertained unless every member of the applicant's family has been vaccinated, and in case of those past childhood, re-vaccinated."  It would be idle to affect surprise over this  Rule. Vaccination and re-vaccination are the  height of fashion, and the Peabody Trustees go  with the stream willingly enough., we dare say.  We would only observe that when a Protestant  is refused interment in a Spanish cemetery, or an  English clergyman hesitates to read' the burial  service over an unbaptised child, or a Conservative  landowner declines to' let his farms to Dissenters,  there is a great outcry raised by Liberals over  their bigotry and intolerance. We observe, in  reply, that they too have their superstitions with  correspondent bigotry and intolerance; and we  venture to prophesy that the time will come when  the prescription 'of vaccinatipn and re-vaccination  by the Peabody Trustees as a condition of tenancy  will* be accounted as discreditable as any test,  theological or political, whereof Liberals flatter  themselves as possessed of superior intelligence in  holding in contempt.  •We are sometimes asked, " How is it that all medical men are in favour of vaccination ? '' and we reply, " We do not believe they are." A considerable acquaintance with medical men convinces us that distrust as to the use and the safety of vaccination is prevalent among them, and that they are eagerly on the outlook for any justification of the practice to which they are professionally committed. The alacrity they have displayed in resorting to the experiment of animal vaccination proves how dissatisfied they are with the ordinary practice. An even more striking evidence of the disquiet of the medical mind is afforded by the inordinate fervour wherewith the report of Pasteur's inoculations was welcomed. It was as if with common acclaim, it was said, " At last Heaven has come to our relief ! Vaccination, after all, is based on verity. Let us be glad and give thanks." We have been deafened with Pasteur. Throughout we have said, " Wait. That one . fever in man or beast should keep off another fever is no matter for astonishment ; but when the fever that has been excited has passed away, the weakened constitution will be all the more liable to disease." This, our contention, Dr. Roszahegyi appears to have demonstrated on behalf of the Hungarian Government ; and Dr. Collins, in a subsequent page, has given a lucid summary of his conclusions, which singularly confirm what opponents of vaccination   have steadily asserted to be the results of that practice. We shall now, probably, see M. Pasteur dropped with disgust by many who have soused him with their adulation ; but in his defence it must be said that M. Pasteur is far from responsible for much of the rubbish that has been delivered as of his authority.   Wb have received many American newspapers with reports of the existing smallpox scare, and the run upon vaccination for security. The scare is stimulated by the vendors of vaccine, and it is painful to observe with how little resistance they are met. There is in human nature a curious willingness, as of positive enjoyment, in being terrified within certain limits. We have also to observe in the case of the Americans that they exlubit a faith in medicines and fanciful remedies and preventives far beyond what is common in this country ; and with such a habit of mind the resort to vaccination is less surprising than where confidence in sanitary measures is more highly developed. Nevertheless, the truth id not without capable representatives, and Mr. Henry Bergh, Dr. Wilder, Dr. Gunn, and Mr. A. E. Giles are making their voices heard in many quarters ; and we would especially urge them to confine the controversy, as far as possible, to American experience. Let them direct inquirers to the results of vaccination in their own families. Let them set the certain mischief it does against the possible mischief of smallpox, and say whether the premium paid for illusory insurance is not in prodigious excess of the disease it is supposed to avert. Let them avoid European statistics, which are vitiated with errors it is not easy to detect. The Detroit Fret Press published an elaboiate table of the smallpox mortality per million before vaccination and since vaccination in a number of European countries; and the editor thought it settled the question in favour of vaccination ; but the table,* it would be easy to show, is charged with misstatements and fallacies. Americans cannot be expected to enter into such old-world questions ; but they may be taught to see with their own 6yes that vaccination does hot prevent smallpox, and that it does inflict illness, disease, and death.   Auckland, New Zealand. ^A rumour that the children attending the public schools were to be vaccinated, sensibly diminished the attendance ; but the committee of management let it be publicly known that they not only knew nothing of the project, but would certainly not permit vaccination in the sehools, nor in any way further its compulsory infliction.      HUNGARIAN STRICTURES ON PASTEUK.  By W. J. Collins, M.B., B.S., B.Sc.  MoBE than twelye months have elapsed since Pasteur first made known his wonderful discoveries. The enthusiastic adulation and unquestioning faith with which their publication was received overwhelmed for awhile all criticism and doubts; and throughout the length and breadth of the land it was proclaimed that vaccination at last had been set upon a scientific basis, that Pasteur had come to the rescue of Jenner, to explain and expand what the latter had long since initiated. Now that some of this superfluous enthusiasm and idle speculation has spontaneously subsided, and wholesome criticism has begun to do its work, we are better able to judge of the truth of M. Pasteur's propositions, of their absolute and relative value, and of their probable practical results.  The two fundamental doctrines laid down by Pasteur are these :-^l. Pure air in respect of the oxygen it contains is capable of attenuating and destroying the nwteries morbi of some (and perhaps all) of the virulent zymotic diseases'. 2. Inoculation of an animal with the virus (so attenuated) of one of these diseases confers ^^ absolute resistance " against infection by that, disease for a period ^ which in some cases may exceed a year." Up to the present time the first proposition has not been cidled in question ; on the contrary, as i)ointedout in this Journal in December, 1880, it seems at once to explain and be supported by all available evidence on the subject, and the hope expressed by M. Pasteur that '* we may here be in the presence of a general law applicable to all kinds of virus," is a reasonable one. With regard to the second proposition, it is otherwise. The experiments ' have been repeated upon a more extensive scale, with the greatest care, but with very different and disappointing results. The Itoyal Hungarian Ministry, impressed with the importance of the Pastorian prophylaxis, wished for a demonstration of the mode of procedure before a committee of experts at Budapest. M. Thullier, one of Pasteur's assistants, was dispatched " with the necessary material and apparatus," and set to work last October experimenting on some 600 sheep and cattie provided for the purpose. A masterly retumi of the experiments and results by Dr. Alad&r von Roszahegyi (Lecturer on Public Health at Budapest University) appears in the JPractUioner for rebrnary and March. Half of the animals were '* vaccinated " and ''re-vaccinated " with the attenuated yirus, and then the whole number, vaccinated and Unvaccinated alike, were inoculated with the virulent anthrax material. One fact of supreme importance was established by these experiments, viz., that this so-called '^ vaccination is by no means a dangerless operation ; '*of the total 317 sheep, 18 (6'68 per cent.) died of anthrax after the two protective inoculations, 1 (0*32 per cent.) of another disease, while in 12, inflammatory infiltration occurred at the point of injection, spreading over the whole thigbj and leading to the formation of . abscesses as large as the fist, fistulse, and sinuses, in consequence of which the animals became lame on the injured legs." While, on the   other hand, be it remarked of the unvaccinated sheep, '' only 1 (0*37 per cent.) died during this time of anthrax, and none of any other disease." In view of these startling facts. Dr. Roszahegyi observes : " It is, therefore, still to be feared that in the practice of inoculation, both infection with anthrax and septic infection may easily, and therefore frequentiy, occur. We cannot overlook the fact, also, that after the protective inoculation ('vaccination'), the deaths from other diseases catarrh, pneumonia, distoma, strongylus, and pericarditis and not those of anthrax, occurred exclueiyely amongst the 'vaccinated animals. It follows from this that the fatal issue of other severe but latent diseases is accelerated by a protective vaccination."  The importance of this admission (not referred to by M. Pasteur) cannot be over-estimated, and it would be interesting to learn whether Sir Risdon Bennett and Dr. W. B. Carpenter, and others, who argue so warmly for a strict analogy between the Pastorian inoculation against anthrax and vaccination against smallpox, are prepared to follow this analogy to its* logical limits, and proclaim with Dr. Roszahegyi, that " the fatal issue of other severe but latent diseases is accelerated by vaccination " I That such is really the case, any unbiased mind can ascertain by reference to the .Parliamentary return (No. 438, 1877), moved for by Mr. Hopw^ood, M.P., which clearly and incontrovertibly demonstrates the danger of seeking to abolish disease by disseminating. disease.  The Pastorian practice is capable of endless expansion. Dr. Carpenter foresees " a series of discoveries of surpassing importance," ' and indulges in the Utopian dreana of*" an appropriate vaccine for measles, scarlet fever, and other acute diseases in the human subject;" while Lister looks forward devoutiy to the Pastoi^an millennium when medicine shall sanction, and Parliament shall enforce, the inoculation of every individual with every disease, in order to preserve the nation in perfect health.  It is refreshing to find, however, that Prof. Lister and Dr. Carpenter stand somewhat alone in their universal prescription of attenuated disease, since Dr. Richardson hastens to condemn the same as a "dangerous device for the prevention of infection's perils." The time has come to count the cost of this paradoxical prescription ; to decide between universal vaccination and universal sanitation ; if the inoculationist be right, to follow .him ; if the sanitarian, then to follow him.  If so many as 6 per cent, (as shown above) succumb in the process of protecting them against only one of the terrible list of zymotic diseasesi it would be interesting to ascertain what percentage would remain to enjoy that universal immunity against zymotic poisons which Dr. Carpenter promises us. Some idea of the result may be obtained as follows. The last report of the Registrar-General gives the total number of zymotic diseases as 29. Now, it is only reasonable to suppose that the same mortality would occur in the process of vaccination for each of these as obtains in the one under consideration. Now, 29 X 5 " 146 ! That is to say, that not only would every soul be sacrificed, but 46 would have to die twice over in order to save the people from   .   all the zymotic diseases by universal Vaccination. Truly this amounts to being killed to save one's life.  But putting aside the dangers which beset the ^ vaccination, what about the protection which this actually affords? To this Dr. Roszahegyi replies: ^'Tne protection afforded by 'vaccination * is not a perfectly certain one. ^ From a practical point of view, it is pretty nearly the same whether the loss is caused by anthrax or other diseases, and, therefore, deaths from them should be added to those from anthrax. If we do this, we get as the result, that of the uninoculated animals 94 ^r cent., and of the inoculated 14*5 per cent*' died.' Even thus a very considerable oifference remains; but, nevertheless, the mortality of the inoculated animals, I4'6 per cent., is by no means small. It must not be forgotten, too, that we have here to do with average numbers, whDe in practice we have to deal with single cases, and in such the mortality due to the protective inoculation mounted, for anthrax alone, from 3'5 to 10 per cent, of the inoculated animals. When we consider all these facts, the fear seems not unfounded that in practice a still higher rate of mortality would be reached. On the other handy we must set against, this mortality, not the experimental mortahty of 94 per cent, of the umnoculated animals, but only the rate of mortality which occurs among the cattie in. districts affected with anthrax, and which is very considerably less.'' And, again, he adds : " It cannot be regarded as proved that these inoculations protect as powerfully from the natural antiirax contagion as from the material used in the central infective experiments, which vvas cultivated from spores several years old."  When it is further. borne in mind that '*the general employment of protective inoculations would spread anthrax microzymes in inconoeivable quantities throughout the whole country," one can readily concur with the opinion of the committee, that ^' the immediate general application of Pasteur's method in the form demonstrated would be precipitate, and. that it should least of all be recommended and disseminated under the authority of the State." And, in conclusion, the committee shrewdly observed, ^* that by strict sanitary regulations in regard to animals attacked by anthrax, and to their dead bodies, much might be done to prevent the increase of anthrax and spread of the disease."  . Such, then; are the strictures which have been put upon Pasteur's sweeping assertions; and, as with "jenner| the '^absolute protection " and '' the most perfect ease tfnd safety " of the process are both disproved already, it remains to be seen what, havoc the tests of tinie and experience will make of what is left. The second proposition of Pasteur, founded upon the sand of vaccination, is beginning to fall, while the first, established on the rock of sanitation, as yet remains impregnable.  Pasteur's inoculations may be accepted as affording analogy and support to the theory of vaccination, or not. If they be accepted, the fact of the vaccination accelerating the fatal issue of other severe but latent diseases must be accepted also ; if they be not so accepted, then the theory of vaccination still remains without a single shred of scientific evidence to back it up.   TO ANDREW BUCHANAN, Esq., M.D.  President of the Faculty of FkysicianSf Olaagow.  My Dsab Sib,-^I have been reading two letters addressed by you to Mr. P. A. Taylor, in the Medical iVew of Feb. 8, concerning his trenchant exposure of the prevalent superstitions connected with the practice of vaccination; and I observe you conclude with' advising Mr. Taylor to commit to the flames any copies of his pamphlet that may remain on hand.  We, who are of the same mind vrith Mr. Taylor, are accustomed to be addressed in terms amazing and arrogant ; but having counted the cost of affronting men's prejudices (if so be we may win them to the truth), we are not affected as though some strange thing happened to us when we incur their resentment. Nor do we care to meet their attacks severally, but dispose of them in gross, their iterative character lending itself to such treatment.  My reason for dealing with your letters is a personal one. When I was young; you were our family doctor, and neither man nor woman who crossed, our threshold was *held in such tender reverence. I recollect . your attendance upon myself in a dangerous illness^ and how your presence lightened the room with confidence and peace. My mother had endless stories of your' skill, your gentieness, patience, and forethought, with the air, too, of a higher world around all. To me you have ever been the exemplar of the good physician.  Hence it is that your opinion on almost any subject would have for me a vivid interest ; and as on vaccination my judgment is pronounced and active, your adverse position claims trom. me serious attention. I feel that if I am to differ from Dr. Buchanan, I must justify viyself on grounds that are firm and clear.  Your position against Mr. Taylor is this:That he does not recognise how the character of . smallpox has been ameliorated by vaccination ; that formerly smallpox was virulent and deadly ; but that now, though "** rife as ever," it has become ^ a mild and painless disease." In proof whereof • you adduce the case of your grandchildren :  '* One of the children took smallpox, but whence it came is a mystery. The house is quite isolated, and there was no smallpox in the neighbourhood. Ten days afterwards, the usual period of incubation, other six children took it all but the baby, who had providentially been vaccinated a short time before. None of the patients lay in bed for a single day. They had good 'spirits and good appetites, and were all well again in eight or ten days. How thankful should we be to Almighty God, who has given to us and to our children a mild and painless disease in the place of the loathsome and fatal natural smallpox ! "  I take this statement as an instance of how we see as we are persuaded we ought to see. Yet, if you consider, you cannot really mean that the mild smallpox exhibited among your grandchildren ^as either due to vaccination, or was unknown before the introduction of vaccination. The contrary was notoriously the fact, and in proof let me refer you to the evidence of Isaac  Massey, apothecary to Christ's Hospital, London. Writing in 1728, he says : '  " There are generally near 600 children in the nnrseries at Ware and Hertford, constantly filling the places of the boys who go off from London. It hath sometimes happened that great nnmbers have been down of the smallpox, and 'tis but seldom that the House is free, or not long so ; yet I 'dare say, and Sir Hans Sloane, I presume, will say so tooj that in twenty years there have not died above five or six of the distemper, and in the last nine years there died but one.  "As I have said before, we have lost but one smali-poz patient these nine years, although 1,800 children have been in the House during that time ; and I declare to have met with no unequal success in other families among children about the same ages (that is between 8 and 15) where I have been concerned ; and I doubt not but many of the Learned Faculty, as well as some others of my profession, can say .as much from their own experience and observation."  "  In this testimony 'of Massey we* have a remarkable confirmation of Sydenham*s observation, " If no mischief be done either by physician or' nurse, smallpox b the most slight and safe of all diseases."  It is altogether an illusion that smallpox became a mild disease consequent on the introduction of vaccination. It was a mild and a severe disease a century ago and two centuries ago as it is at this day Dr. Wagstaffe, physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, stated the fact accurately in 1722, when he wrote : -  " There is scarcely, I believe, so great a difference between any "two distempers in the world as between the best and the worst sort of smallpox in respect to the dangerfa which attend theiA. So true is that common observation, that there is one sort in which a nurse cannot kill, and another which even a physician cannot cure."  I take it that (with your habitual candour) you will admit in presence of such tiestimony, that in ascribing the origin of mild smallpox to vaccination, you have Ibeen at fault. The admission need imply no censure: we are all, more or less, creatures of bias, and the prepossession in favour of vaccination is often so strong, that it is only by a painful wrench that, so much as a suspicion of its virtue can be entertained.  Having disposed of the inference you draw from the mild smallpox of your grandchildren, I now turn to your statement regarding the  smallpox  epidemic Of I8I972O in Glasgow. You admit that among the young who were vaccinated many were attached, tbough, so far as you knew^ not one died. It is to be observed, however, that  , whilst the epidemic of 1819-20 was wide-spread, the disease was so mild, that not a few practitioners accounted it a variety of chicken-pox. You draw Mr. Taylor's attention specially to the  • case of the Highlanders who had come to Glasgow in quest of employment, who were unvaccinated, and who suffered from  smallpox  in confluent and virulent forms; your* assumption being that, if vaccinated, they would either have escaped, or suffered mildly; liut I question your assumption. In the Franco-German War, vaccinated and re-vaccinated soldiers were struck down with smallpox of the most malignant variety ; and the conditions that induced smallpox in these soldiers were conditions closely allied to those in which the Highlanders found themselves in the crowded and fetid wynds of Glasgow. The personal habits of these Highlanders were filthy, but were neutraLised at home by the air of the sea and the mountains ; but packed like herring in Glasgow flats, in those days without water, and without any of those conveniences which we now regard as essential to the very decency of life, can we wonder that they fell victims to typhus, to  smallpox , and, indeed, to every malady that belongs to existence in an atmosphere charged with human emanations? No vaccination, I say, could have saved them from smallpox ;' nor, when smallpox was epidemic, from the disease in its worst forms. In this connection let me ask wherein would be the advantage of suppressing smallpox, if the conditions in which it is bred remain unchanged? Smallpox is a sign of evil rather than evil itself. It is an effort of Nature to throw off impurity in the blood. If we could thwart that effort, should we not merely defer the outbreak, and have it in other aggravated issues? It seems to me that if anyone is in a condition to have smallpox , he cannot do better than have smallpox. I am not recommending smallpox, but simply advising that where it exists, let it come forth. If the poor Highlanders you describe, poisoned with Glasgow filth, had not had smallpox, they would have had some other fever, smallpox was not the cause of offence, but the habits and circumstances in which it was begotten. Let us not forget the discovery of our fellow dtizep, Dr. Robert Watt, announced in 1813. When there was great rejoicing over the disappearance of smallpox (absurdly ascribed to Vaccination), he pointed out that though smallpox had gone, the city death-rate was not reuced, and that the causes of death had merely assumed other febrile forms. It was a sagacious divination, which subsequent observation has incontestably verified. The presence of smallpot does not raise death-rates, nor does ltd absence lower them. Nothing affects the death-rate from zymotic diseases save improved sanitary conditions ; and Mr. Edwin Chadwick, therefore, advises that the attention of every community should be fixed on their death-rate* as the sure index of physical misery and suffering. Strange to say, when smallpox is prevalent, the deathrate of a district is frequently abnormally low. . You charge Mr. TAylor with having attempted '' to tear the laurels from the honoured brow of Jenner;'' but this charge comes with grotesque effect from one whose own hands are full of leaves torn from the same honoured brow* Let me explain. You sliy :  " The great glory of the immortal Jenner does not consist in his having extirpated smallpox, which is as rife as ever, but in his having converted the most loathsome and fatal affection with which God in hi6 wrath ever afflicted the human race into a trifling and mild disease."  Jenner made no claim to 'convert smallpox  into a mild disease. His undertaking^ was of a  I widely different character, which, in nis petition   8      for reward addrepfied to the House of Commons in 1802, be thus specified :-r " Your Petitioner hag discorered that a disease, which occasionally exists in a particular form among cattle, known by the name of Cow-Poi, admits of being inoculated on the human frame with the most perfect ease and safety, and is attended with the singularly beneficial effect of rendering through life the persons so inoculated perfectly secure from the infection of smallpox."  Again, these are his words : ^  " When it has been uniformly found that the human frame, when once it has felt the influence of the genuine cowpox, is never afterwards, at any period of its existence,' assailable by smallPox, may. I not with perfect confidence congratulate my country and society at large on their beholding in the mild form of cowpox an antidote that is capable of extirpating from the earth a disease which is every hour devouring its victims ; a disease which has ever been considered as- the severest scourge of the human race ?"  .^ Thus we see that Jenner promised lifelong immunity from smallpox to the Taccinated, holding t)ut the hope that smallpox might be extirpated from the earth; or precisely what you are pleased to disown on his account ; and not only to disown, but to prove fallacious in an experience which. you describe as that of on& " who has seen as much natural smallpox as any man now living.*' .  You say that in the efttdemics of 1819-20 (whilst Jenner yet lived- he died in 1823) the vaccinated in Glasgow were freely attacked, only they did not die, whilst those who had been inoculated escaped in common with those who had had smallpox naturally. Suppose you had written to Jenner and told him so- that the variolated in Glasgow were secure from smallpox, whilst the vaccinated on every side contracted the diseasehow do you think the Immortal Being would have received the information? Do you suppose he would have thanked you, or recognised in you a loyal disciple? Verily not. Jenner's answer would have summanly disenchanted you, and epithets, somewhat different from "honoured" and "immortal," would now be flowing from your pen. Goldson, of Portsmouth, and Brown, of Musselburgh, were less at variance with Jenner than you, and what he thought of them may be read at large in his correspondence. Like most of ua, he preferred an uncompromising antagonist to a candid friend, dealing out praise so quaUfied aa scarcely to be praise at all* "^  You say vaccination makes smallpox milder, that It modifies the disease. How do you know ? Unless you could ascertain how fierce smallpox would be in a specified case without vaccination, how can you tell how much milder it is with vaccination? You predicate where demonstration IS unattainable. It is said we cannot refute a prophet, but we may disbelieve him; and I utteriy disbelieve that smallpox is ma^e milder by vaccination. It is a statement for which in no single instance there can be a vestige of evidence. As I have shown, mild ca^s were common before vaccination was heard of, and what made them mild? If we take   smallpox in group, as in hospitals, we find, as Mr. Taylor has clearly set forth, that the ratio of deaths to cases stands at this day where it did a century ago; that, to speak roughly, out of every 100 attacked, from 16 to 20 die, or one in five or six. You try to meet this plain issue by saying that only the worst cases of smallpox are sent to hospitals. It was so, I dare say, a cen£ury ago, when smallpox was much less dreaded than it is today ; ^ but in the prevalent terror (which vaccination, with all its ma^c, does not abate), all cases of smallpox, however mild, are, if possible, dispatched to the hospitals. Consequently, if a lower mortality were now exhibited, it would not be surprising ; but, instead, the average mortality sticks persistently at the same figure, proving, as we maintain, that vaccination has in nowise affected the intensity of the disease.  From your letters I derive afresh a profitable lesson, namely, in this controversy to exercise extreme patience and forbearance. I have as much confidence in you as man may- have in man, and yet I see in you a victim of illusion-^ of illusion that the experience of a long life might have been expected to dissipate ; and has, indeed, in some measure dissipated, as your various admissions attest. Catholic theologians have a theory of "invincible ignorance," whereby they account for and excuse the resistance of heretics^ otherwise ^ood, to the Church, and in your case I and driven to a similar expedient. I do not like to think of you aa a wilful antagonist of the truth, and I shall try to account for your perversity by rcfmembering now hard it is to overcome prejudice once contracted, and assented to by those with whom we associate.  Lastly, I would observe that in writing to Mr. Taylor, you do not appear to appreciate the earnestness and gravity with which this agitation against vaccination has been undertaken. It is no li^ht mattei! to counsel resistance to the law, and incite parents to undergo public prosecution, with fine and imprisonment, rather than submit their children to the barbarous Jennerian rite. We have, however, counted the cost, and recognise our difliculties; biit, trusting in the omnipotence of truth, we have resolved to persevere until every citizen is left free to decline  vaccination 'as he would any other medical prescription in which he has no faith, or is persuaded is injurious to the helLlth of those for whom he- is responsible and dear to him as his own life. - Yours faithfully and gratefully, Kentigebn.   Lthph Is. a Tube. - Medical practice must be in a bad way when public vaccinators are obliged to resort to the sale of vaccine lymph in order to eke out a^ livelihood. Adversity makes us pick up. acquaintanceship with strange bed-fellows, and • hard times drive us to resort to strange devices to raise the "needful," but I pray Heaven that I.shall never be driven to resort to the sale of humanised va^x:ine lymph in order to meet my necessities. A post-card has just been put into my hands which emanates from a public vaccinator in the neigh- bourhood of Kennington, advertising carefully- selected lymph for sale at one shilling per tube. The profession, it is to be feared, is fast degene- rating to a trade, and that of a not very high order. -En. Students' Journal, Feb. 4, 1882.      MACAULAY AND smallPOX.  [Macaoxay's extravagant description of London smallpox is a favonrite passage. Its high colours catch the vulgar eye, and it is often cited against those who question the value of vaccination. Reproduced in the Monthly Record, a paper devoted to 'the Sunday-school interests of the Society of Friends, Mrl Alexander Wheeler addressed the Editor as follows] : -  Facts and Vaccination.  The MoniMy Mecord of February 15, contains the following : -  " This is Macaulay's description of smallpox in the seventeenth century, when it has been computed that 300 persons in every 1,000,000 died annually of the disease. - ' The smallpox was always present, filling the churchyards with corpses, leaving on those whose lives it spared the hideous traces of its power, turning the babe into a changeling at which the mother shuddered, and making the eyes and cheeks of the betrothed maiden objects of horror to her lover.* Such facts may be commended to the attention of those who doubt the great value of the improvement brought in by the introduction of vaccination."  Why does the Editor of the Record put this paragraph into his columns? It is not a medical joarnaly and it is surely not interested in aiding unjust persecution.  The paragraph contains many inaccuracies, short though it be. In a few words, inaccuracy can be stated which a great many are needed to refate.  First of all, 300 persons per million has been copied wrongly and is ridiculously small as compared with many a modern smallpox death-rate ; 3,000 per million was no' doubt intended, and this 3,000 per million is, in itself, merely a computation^n other words, a guess.  There was no registration prior to the year 1838. For the seventeenth century there was no attempt at accuracy in any way, and no vital statbtics exist upon which any reliance can be placed. Here again we are, as so often before, treated to nothing but a reckless copy of a random assertion, to aid the vindictiveness of an unjust la\^. Instead of letting the " 3,000 per million " stand as if it were for England of the seventeenth * century, it should have been confined to London. As regards England, one guess is as good as another, no information being available.  As regards London^ surely those familiar with the history of early Quakerism know something of the dirt and uncleanness of London at that time, and should be the last to institute comparisons between its then and its present state, except to show how in everything favourable to health they differ. Foul houses, foul reeking streets, no sanitation, bad food, bad drink, bad habits, crowding to excess in all parts, even the best - these were the factors which produced the smallpox , typhus, occasional blacK death, sweating sickness, &c., which decimated the population.  All now is changed except the overgrowding ; and the parts in which overcrowding is the rule, are the very parts where smallpox is severest.  Then, as to the horror in which seventeenth century and eighteenth century people held  smallpox . What are the facts? They are exactly the   reverse of Macaulay's statement. smallpox was courted. Where there was a chance of giving it to a child, that chance was accepted. Children in health were put to sleep with those on whom smallpox was in eruption. In the eighteenth century, even this method was too slow, and from church and chapel people were encouraged to afflict themselves with smallpox by direct inoculation. The result was that they had a surfeit of it, and it was the ripening disgust with this culture of disease and consequent death, which, as the eighteenth century waned, was growing to a crisis, that enabled Jenner to so easily proclaim and secure acceptance for his " antidote.'' Now let us turn from Macaulay to the greatest vital statistician of our times, Dr. Farr. He tell us that :  "1. The diseases of London in the sixteenth century still prevail in unhealthy climates; not only the diseases, but the manner of death have changed in this metropolis, but the frequency and fatality of the principal diseases have diminished.  *' 2. The reported cases of fever, plague, cholera, and dysentery constituted four-tenths of the diseases ; they destroyed annually on an average 31 per thousand of the inhabitants ; five times as many are now carried oB. by consumption.  smallpox  attained its maximum mortality after inoculation was introduced. The annual deaths from smallpox registered (in the London Bills of Mortality) 1760-79 were 2,323; in the next twenty years, 1780-99, they declined to 1,740 ; this disease, therefore, began to grow less fatal before  vaccination was discovered ; indicating, together with the diminution of fevor, the general improvement in health then taking place.  *'In 1771-80, smallpox deaths were 6 per. thousand annually ; 1801-10, 2 per thousand ; 1831-5, -83 per thousand.  "Fever, exclusive of the plague, has progressively subsided ; siBce 1771 fever has declined nearly in the same ratio as smallpox. In the three latter periods quoted the deaths from .fever decreased thus, 621, 264, 114 ; and smallpox, 602, 204, 83."  Thus, slightly abbreviated, does this great statistician sum up the condition of' things as regards London. If the same feature of decline in general mortality, and decline in all diseases' produced by foul conditions, goes all through, then the decline in fever must be as much due to vaccination as that of smallpox, since the decline began prior to vaccination in both cases, and has. continued in the same way.  But there is no pretence that vaccination was at all generally adopted before 1840; the year of the first Act authorising the provision of vaccination for the public, and two years prior to the time when this registration began. If Anyone will take the pains to look at the registration returns from that time until now, he will find no evidence of a decrease in the national death-rate worth much notice.  And on further examination he will find that there is not the shadow of evidence for any of the assertions that smallpox is now progressively declining. Thus; everything implied in your quotation from Macaulay is without foundation, and the lesson offered to us today is one founded upon prejudice and maccuracy, and not upon the " facts" of the case.   To allow the paragraph to go unanswered would be to assist injustice and superstition, and I therefore claim space for this reply in common ftdrness and in the cause of liberty.  Albx. Wheeleb.  Darlington, Feb. 23, 1882.  " The Editor did not see his way to publish Mr. Wheeler's letter, but instead this note of explanation:  " Several friends of the Monthly Record liav^ complained .of the paragraph, * Macanlay and Vaccination/ as being inaccurate and very misleading, in proof of which statements one of them appeals to Dr. Farr, as showing from the London Bills of Mortality that a marked decline in smallpox and fever generally preceded the practice of vaccina* tion. It is also pointed out that during the registration period, 1838 to the present time, there has been no such improvement in the vital statistics of this country. We may say that we are not responsible for the opinions expressed in the paragraph, and regret its appearance. There is more questioning of the value of Vaccination abroad than many would imagine who do not occupy the editorial chair, and we hope that inquiry will be stimulated to discover on which side lies the truth in this question."   VACCINO TUBERCLE.  It is quite a recognised fact that local tubercle is developed by local inflammation, especially in the subject predisposed to tuberculosis; and bearing in mind that vaccination is a local inflammatory process, it- becomes dear that a probability, almost amounting to a certainty, exists that tubercle may be introduced to the previously healthy individual through vaccination. I am further of opinion, with reference to vaccination, that it should be optional, although apparently desira1)le, and that it should be put upon such a footing as to prevent it from propagating such diseases as tuberculosis and syphilis. - J. Cappib Shand, M.B., CM., Physician toOiaagow FuHic Dispensary, Medical Press, Feb. 16, 1862.  The question raised by Dr. Cappie Shand merits serious attention. He has expressed a belief in the communicability of tubercle by the process of vaccination. It is no new doctrine, though it has never been a favourite one with the profession, .but since our notions as to the nature and pathology of tubercle have been completely revolutionised by the experiments of Vulemin, EQebs, and Burden Sanderson, the question has been re-opened, is one of the first importance, and now awaits solution.  Tubercle, we know, is not a specific disease ; is communicable by inoculation, and can be produced by arti6cial cultivation. 'We are told by Br Green that ''(the products of various inflammations (for the most part in^Uunmationa of slight intensity) may constitute the infective agents.'' Cohnheim, too, in his recent work declares ^ the test for tubercle " to be " the capacity of a morbid product when introduced into the body of a rabbit or guinea pig to produce tuberculosis in the animals. What   produces tuberculosis is tubercle; what fails to produce it is not tubercle," while Wilson Fox has shown that vaccine lymph so introduced does pro" duce tuberculosis in the animal. If the premises be sound the condnsion of the syllogism is more obvious than pleasant. Tubercle has also been communicated to hens by vaccination. Thidn, affain, the artificial cultivation of tubercle is on this wise. The product of a common non-specific inflamination in one animal is inoculated upon a series of animals, with the result of evolving a. powerful poison swarming with bacteria, but which in its milder actions gives rise to tubercular disease. An analogy between this process and that of arm-to-arm vaccination has been suggested, and it is for those who extol so highly the innocuity of humanised lymph to prove that such analogy does not hold.  It is a fact that infantile mortality, as a whole, is declining. It is also a fact that infantile mortality from scrofula and mesenteric disease is progressively increasing, and this coincidently with the extension of vaccination. Is this coincidence a causal or a casual relation?  Dr. Shand suggests the substitution of animal lymph to avoid the alleged danger. He seems to forget that from 6 to 30 pr cent, of bovines are tuberculous, and that this disease, according to Creighton, is communicable to man by the milk ; while Mr. Fleming assures us that " the lymph is viruliferous."  Lastly, as a crucial test, M. Toussaint vaccinated a tuberculous cow with lymph absolutely pure. The vesicles progressed normally, and with the lymph obtained from them he vaccinated different animals, and everyone of these subsequently became tuberculous. I offer these facts as suggestive, rather than conclusive. The difiiculty must be met ; it is too vital to be put aside. W. J. Collins, M.B., B.S., B.Sc.,Lond., in Medical Press and Circular, March 8, 1882.  As regards the possibility of either syphilis or tubercle being conveyed from one individual or animal to another by vaocmation, I think there can be little doubt. During the last two years I have seen among the children attending the outpatient department of the North- West London Hospital tnree who were attacked with a cuta- neous eruption of a most suspicious character, and * in one, at all events, I think I may with certainly say the disease was of a syphilitic nature. In ful these cases the patients were perfectly healthy before vaccination. What is possible as regards syphilis, I think is also possible as regards tubercle, and that the latter b not brought prominently to our notice is due to the character, seat, and difii- culty attending the early recognition of tubercu- losis in infantile life. But whether from insu- perable difiiculties intrinsically connected with the selection of lymph, owing either to irremediable carelessness or other causes, it is certain that the dangers incident to vaccination *are neither infinitesimal nor mythical, but actually present and occasionally repulsive. . Therefore, I think, if compulsory vaccination is to be maintained, the puDlic are entitied to protection frona all risks from whatever cause arising. - D. H. Cullimore, F.R.O.S.L, in Medical Press and Cir- cular, March 15, 1882.   .   11   THE BOVINE MANIA IN THE UNITED STATES.  In his reference to San Francisco, Br. Car^nter accuses the Chinese of keeping up a smouldering fire of smallpox. That these celestials should be able to spread in America the disease they are* apparently unable to cultivate epidemically on their unTaccinated native soil is one of the anomalies of vaccinal logic. Although outbreaks in China itself are checked, and modified/ and stopped without vaccination, Br. Carpenter seems to be of the opinion that the San Francisco out^ break of November, 1880, was checked by vaccination alone. The lUnstrtfted Wasp, published in that CaliCornian city on the 27th of the same November, puts the cowpox in a very different light. It gives a quotation from Br. Meares, the chief officer of the San Francisco Board of Health, who says, " Human virus deteriorates . . . It is proven beyond contradiction that humanized virus may convey syphilis . . . Vast numbers of intelli- gent persons are prejudiced against and oppose vaccination because of the known fact that humanized virus has conveyed syphilis.^ Br. Meares is an advocate of '^bovine virus," whatever that may be. He says, " The introduction and use of bovine virus is rapidly removing this prejudice and opposition . . . Bovine virus is protective affainst an attack of smallpox, and conveys n6 disease." On the other hanct, a local physiciai), in the San Francisco Bulletin, of November 17, 1880, flatly contradicts the assertions of the bovine agitators, and says, "Another popular error regarding vaccination is that many diseases are, or may be, communicated by it from one person to another. This assertion has been proved utterly false by the experiments and experiences of the most celebrated medical men of Europe during the past eighty years. The virus that has passed through many human systems is more sure and unfaiUng in its effects than fresh bovine virus." After quoting these diametrically opposite revelations of the vaccine creed, the writer in the San Frandscd Wasp observes: "In view of such outrageous differences of opinion on the part of medical authorities, are not the public justified in believing that the members of this much overrated profession know absolutely nothing of the properties of the poison they so recklessly distribute ? It is almost impossible for any one who attacks the theories of those priests of Moloch, the doctors, to obtain a hearing in the press. That the ventilation of this subject meets with bitter opposition from the medical profession doi^s not in the least surprise us. It would indeed be strange if the practice should be denouxiced by those who profit by it. Vaccination never has been a protection against smallpox, but on the contrary, has enormously increased the; tendency and susceptibility to that and other forms of disease, particularly during the infantile period. Unyaocinated persons are' £m susceptible to contract the disease when exposed to it. We believe that at least three-fourths of the doctors in this city of San Francisco are convinced that the practice of vaccination is wrong, but unfortunately they allow the temptation of making a considerable sum of money in a very easy manner to overcome what scruples they may entertain as to their   patients' welfare, and further quiet their consciences with the reflection, that if the^ do not perform the odious rite, someone else will.'' Let our readers compare the official report of Oakland, in California, for 1880, quoted in the iNQUiBBBfor July last, p. 68. H. B. B.   ELLIS'S "PRACTICAL MANUAL OF THE DISEASES OF CHILBREN."  "In regard to vaccination, it would be well in a future edition that Br. Ellis should refer to the observations of Mr. Hutchinson on vaccinal syphilis. It seems necessary to insist that the only evidence of specific contamination which is worth anything is the formation of a distinct chancre in the site of the vaccination Boiea, appearing, it may be, after the sore has healed, but at all events about six weeks after the original puncture was made, and followed, in due course, by the ususd rdle of ac(]^uired syphilis. Br. Ellis ought also to prepare his readers for the occasional supervention of other troublesome skin lesions upon vaccination, for which the doctor is not responsible, but the idiosyncrasy of the patient, and the risk of which we ought lankly to accept." --Lancet, 26th Feb., 1882.  This is valuable as showing a ^eat advance in the medical aspect of the vaccination Question. Onl^ a few years since such things were stoutly denied : now vaccino-syphilis and '' other trouble- some skin lesions upon vaccination" are "frankly" acknowtedged. A. W.   Tobacco r. Vaccine. - " It . is reported that smallpox having appeared in the Bolton .Work- house, the Guardians have resolved to issue tobacco freely to the inmates, in order that the wards may be didnf ected by the fumes. The congregation of the inmates together at religious services, and even a£ meal-times, is also- forbidden." - Laiicet, Feb. 4, 1882.  Opposition to Vaccination in Massachusetts. - Three petitions to the Legislature of Massachusetts are now in circulation for the repeal of the Vaccination Statutes. Dr. Buf us K. Noyes, of Lynn, ii^ their originator. One of the petitions is headed by Wendell Phillips, James N. Buffum, and Samuel M. Bulier. Anotiier has on it the names of thirty physicians. Other physicians in Boston, Lynn, and other places declare that they know that  vaccination is a sham ; but under the prevalent reign of terror, the signing of the petition would injure their business.  A Case of KenVariolous Sicall-Pox. - On June 14, 1881, Abe Todd, a soniewhat notorious horse-thief ' in the jail at Springfield, was attacked with a disorder, which the physicians duly diagnosticated as smallpox. Dr. J. H. Bauoh, Secretary of the State Boanl of Health, confirmed the opinion. The Sheriff removed his family, and fond mothers sent for doctors to vaccinate their children. The Board of Health ordered Todd off to the pest-house, after the approved style of modem barbarism. The next intelligence was that he had escaped ; and a horse had disappeared £rom a private stable the same night. A phial that had contained croton oil was found in his cell} showing the cause of the smallpox scare. - Medical Tribune,   1^   The vaccination' iNQtriRER.   COPT OF MR. p. A. TAYLOR'S BILL.  [45 Vict.] Vaeeination Aei" {CompuUory Clautea Eepeal).  A Bill to Repeal the Compulsory Clauses OF THE Vaccination Acts.  Whebbas the laws which compel all persons to have their children vaccinated, even in cases where their medical advisers are of opinion that that process is useless or dangeroiis, inflict great great hardship upon large numbers of the community, especially upon the poorer classes, it is expedient that these laws should be repealed : .  Be it therefore enacted by the Queen's most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows : -  1. That/r(wi and after the passing of this Act all those sections of Statutes of the -Kealm providing for compulsory enforcement of vaccination shall be and are hereby repealed.  2. This Act may be cited for all purposes as the Compulsorjr Vaccination Abolition Act, 1882.  The Bill is prepared and brought in by Mr. F. A. Taylor, Mr. Burt, Mr. Hopwood, Sir Wilfrid Lawson, and Mr. Samuelson.   THE CLOSURE AT LEICESTER.  At the Leicester Town Hall, on March 22f a number of cases for non-vaccination were brought before Alderman Paget and Mr. S. Viccars, the usual Leicester fine of lOs. being imposed in each instance. Mr. J. T. Stephen being summoned, the following colloquy ensued wixb the Bench : -  Mb. Stephen. - '1 am here to say that my child is in good health, and I mean to keep it so. Moreover, I have " reasonable excuse " to urge, according to the Act.  Mb. Viccabs. - We are not here to listen to excuses.  Alb. Paget. - The question of reasonable excuse is decided already, and it is unnecessary for you to say more.  Mb. Stephen. - I aim surprised that you should venture to dispose of my reasonable excuse before you have heard it.  Here he was interrupted by the Bench. They would not listen to anything.  Mb. Stephen. - But I am summoned to show reasonable excuse, and I am here to prove it.  Alb. Paget."*- We have nothing to do vnth your excuse, and we decline to hear anything further. "  Mb. Stephen. - It appears to me grossly unfair that I should be summoned to show reasonable excuse, and then that you decline to hear it Either there is reasonable excuse or there is not. The Act says there is, and it is my duty to' state it .  Here he was again interrupted from the Bench. They would listen to nothing.  Mb. Stephen. - I then repeat that my treatment is grossly unfair, and is only to 1^ compared with that of country justices who inflict penalties under the game laws without proof of offence. You deny me that hearing which as honourable men you are bound to give. You are sworn to do what is just and right between   prosecutor and defendant, and yet you are ready td fine me without a hearing. Every man has a right to fair trial, and I demand that right. If you refuse it, then I must say whalrit will cause me pain to say.  Mb. Viccabs. - We cannot hear you. You are wasting the time of the Court.  Mb. Stephen. - You etopped me before I finished my first sentence, and the waste of time is entirely your own doing.  The Bench. - We decline to hear you.  Mb. Stephen. - Then, if you decline to hear me, all I have got to say is, you are unjust judges.  Mb. Viccabs. - You have no right to say that.  Mb. Stephen. - But I will say it, and, what is more, I will maintain it. If you treat me with kindness, * forbearance, and courtesy, I shall be much more kind, forbearing, and courteous to the Bench ; but if you treat me unjustly and deny me a fair hearing, then I must resent your treatment.  The Bench. - ^We decline to hear you.  Mb. Stephen. - Well, then, you set the law at defiance, and set an example of lawlessness which is a disgrace to the Bench.  The Bench. - You are fined 10s.  Mb. Stephen. - I have been denied a hearing, and you have never tried the case at all.  Mb. Amos Booth appeared for another defendant, whereon Alderman Paget took up the thread of what Mr. Booth was saying, and at once, without more ado, said a fine of 10s. would be inflicted, adding that this case had been conducted much better than the one heard previously.  Mb. Stephen. - You have yourselves to thank for what has happened. You were the aggressors.   SOAP AND WATER.  ^F the Hospital for Contagious Diseases, ilfast, we reaa in the British Medical Journal of March 18:-  " Daring the last three epidemics of smallpox, no convalescent was allowed to leave the convalescent ward until he had been there five weeks, received two baths weekly, and been duly washed with'carbolic acid soap. Since that arrangement has been made, no case of smallpox has been admitted out of any family into which a convalescent thus treated has returned, thus proving its protective power.**  So much we may readily concede ; but how does the practice accord with Dr. Seaton's dictum, that no sanitary measures, but vaccination, and vaccination alone, is of any avail against  smallpox  ? To allow that soap and water have " pror tective power " is a dangerous admission, and may lead to worse.   Capri. - SmaJl-pox has prevailed in the island of Capri in an almost epidemic form, though of a mild type. The ignorant classes refuse to be vaccinated, or to allow their children to be so. The parish priest and others of the clergy, who have a great influence on the islanders, have assisted the authorities by submitting themselves to the process of inoculation. - Shipping and Mercantile Ganette, Jan. 10, 1882.   .   13   ANTI-VACCINATION MEETING IN NEW YORK.  A MKBTiNG of the First Anti- Vaccination League of America was held at Steck Hall, New York, ' Feb. 16, Mr.- George H. Jones presiding. The room was densely pricked.  Dr. R. A. Gunn was the first speaker, and delivered a prepared address. He set forth that smallpox is a filth-disease, originating rather from improper sanitary conditions, want of proper personal cleanliness, unwholesome state of body, &c., than from direct contagion. To attempt to obviate these by vaccination was preposterous, and he showed by examples and reasoning that it always had been, and would be, unsuccessful ; indeed, vaccination as now practised, from arm to arm, from *' bovine virus," or from the matter obtained by the inoculating of animals with smallpox virus, is not the  vaccination taught by Jenner, but precisely what he declared would not protect from smallpox.  Dr. A. Wilder remarked that those opposed to vaccination are estopped from argument on this question, because its advocates haughtily refuse all reasoning, whether from analogy or cited evidence. They taunt us as " cranks," adopting for their own diction the slang of the assassin. They deny us the credit of learning and intelli- gence. They cram the newspapers with* interviews like that of Dr. Sayre, and then these journals, instructed by them, exclude all replies from their columns. It is a general gagging of free utterance, and with it the endeavour to enforce arbitrary regulations. Only their own statistics,, which are nowhere honourably kept, and their own experience are allowed any consideration. This sort of work is called in the medical dialect, empiricism - in common phrase, charlatanry. The National Board of Health - getting 100,000 dol. for it - the telegraph and newspapers, have diligently created the panic of a smallpox epidemic, but, speaking carefully, there is none; but rather one of scarlatina. In this city, there are thrice the number of cases of that disease, five or six, times the number of measles, and three or four times the instances of diph- theria,' and death from them, than smallpox ; and nothing is said. There is no money in them, as in a smallpox panic. smallpox has never been so mortal as represented ; and now its fatality is enhanced, not diminished, by these quackish devices. The intelligent men of both continents are awakening to this fact. In regard to the law of the matter, to open the body of a sound person and infuse into it the poison of a ' disease was of the nature of crime. It had no sanction in science, lawful practice, or morality. Dr. Wilder read the following resolutions, which^ were put to the vote and adopted unanimously with enthusiasm :-  Whereas J It has been an established principle of the common law, as set forth by distinguished jurists, that no man may be compelled to undergo any surgical operation against his own consent; and  Whereas f  vaccination  has been, and still is, distrusted as a beneficial operation, and is disap- proved by men eminent in science, medical know- ledge, and surgical skill in both hemispheres ; and   WhereaSf There is good and sufficient reason to believe that vaccination is itself a source and factor of -disease, deteriorating the health, and sometimes destroying the life of individuals by the loathsome diseases which it induces ; and  Whereas, The said practice is a known and notorious empiricism, having no basis whatever in physiological or remedial science, and depends now upon the inducing of panic and unnecessary alarm, and the silencing of the press and private. opinion ; and  Whereas,  vaccination , since it has become general, has worked corruption of blood and increase of disease, has really exempted no one from smallpox, but smallpox is more deadly in consequence of it, and more to be feared than ever ; Therefore be it  Resolved, That we protest against any and all legislation or other action making vaccination compulsory, whether in schools, workshops, manu- factories, or in the public service.*  Besolved, That we respectfully ask the several legislatures of the States of this Union to repeal and annul every statute, ordinance, and regulation, by whatever authority made, within their jurisdic-, tion, respectively, excluding pupils from public schools and institutions if they are not vaccinated ; and that we submit, that if those who are vaccinated are really protected, they can suffer no peril from the presence of the unvaccinated.  Resolved, That no legislation upon this subject can fully meet what the people have the right to demand, except it shall make every, individual who performs vaccination personally liable, in penalties and damages, for the deaths, sicknesses, and other ill effects which ensue therefrom.  Resolved, That we disclaim the recent circular of the National Sanitary Commissioners, declaring smallpox epidemic as erroneous and improper, in the presence of the fact that other eruptive diseases are several fold more numerous and fatal ; and, acco^ngly, it is alike detrimental to public pros- perity and unworthy of scientific conservators of the public health.  Resolved, That we hereby agree to co-operate, with the International Anti-  vaccination  Congress, and the various organisations in this country and elsewhere, opposed to compulsory vaccination, for. the purpose of publishing and disseminating accurate knowledge upon this subject ; and that we will refuse vaccination in our own persons and families, and will oppose and resist in all proper ways, such measures as may be resorted to for enforcing the operation, in the full belief that we are contending for right against wrong, for health against disease, and for life against death, and that scientific learning promulgated by free speech and a manly public press will put a speedy end to the practice against which we are arrayed.  Prof. G. W. Winterbum showed by examples under his own observation, that vaccination had proved useless as averting smallpox, while dan- gerous diseases had been contracted from it.  Prof. Dobson delivered a forcible address, showing the cruelties attending enforced vaccination in England, citing able physicians who had long been vaccinators, and abandoned it and its emoluments from principle ; and setting forth the viciousnessi' as well as uselessness, of the practice.  Dr. Cooley called attention to the fact that animals were slaughtered, and their fiesh sold, a   u   .   large percentage of which had tuhercles. Virus inoculated from such would transplant consumption.  Another speaker had been in the army of the Potomac, when vaccination had been yerj generaL Many had fearfully-inflamed arms, and several died. Others afterwards took smallpox.  Dr. Tuttle introduced a man whose child had died of pyaemia from  vaccination , and from whose scrofulous children the Board of Health had carefully preserved the scabs. Others had analogous examples to record.  After adjournment, a large list of names was added to the membership of the Anti- Vaccination League.   VACOINO'PY^MIA.  The following are the notes of a case of post- vaccinal pysBmia*: -  Louisa Caroline P., of Kotherhithe Street, Rotherhithe, a healthy child at six months, was vaccinated seven weeks ago by the public vaccinator. The child had a '' beautiful arm," which, however, was followed by an abscess appearing in the arm-pit, and erysipelatous inflammation extending to the wrist. A week or two later, another abscess appeared on the left arm (the vaccination was performed on the right). Following this, a consecutive eeries of abscesses began, on the left knee, the right ankle, and right- elbow, some of which burst and discharged, copiously, thin^ watery pus. The child rapidly emaciated, and continues in a critical state.  The father and mother are healthy. They have eight other children, an of whom are alive and well.  This case is evidently one of chronic pysemia with multiple abscesses, after and from vaccination.  The following ^milar case is detailed in Vol. XV. of St. Bartholomew's SbmittU Iteports, p. 263. Catherine C, aged 14 ' weeks, admitted Aug. 26, 1879. Was vaccinated on 11th inst. Ther^ are four well-marked vaccine pustules on the left arm, in the usual situation. Nothing unusual was noticed until after the eighth day. About the ninth day, or later, the child refused food, a tender lump in the left arm-pit was noticed, and the right hand swelled up. On admission there was a fluctuating swelling in the left armpit, and similar swellings on the back of the right arm and front of right thigh appeared. Temperature 103. The abscesses were opened, but on Aug. 23 the general condition was worse, abscesses ap- peared on the left wrist and thigh, and the child 'died on Aug. 30.  A caw^i 8ome way reeembling the alwve k recorded in the Lancet^ Sept. 16. 1860, and the recent outbreak at San Quirico, reported in the Lyon M4dicale, June 22, 1879, seems to have been of the same nature.  Such occurrences are hardly surprising when it is borne in mind that the Local Government Board in one year alone (1880) distributed 10,260 ivory points of putrefying lymph throughout the country.  It is superfluous to remark that the Begistrai^ General's returns show that deaths of infants from pyaemia are on the increase. W. J. C.   DEATHS FROM VACCINATION WITH BOVINE VIRUS.  (A letter addreised to Mr. P. A. Taylor, M,P.)  Lowell, Mass., U.S.A., .Feb. 13, 1882.  My deab Sib, - I have read and re-read with much interest your letter to Dr.- W. B. Carpenter. In Westford, Middlesex County, Mass., in 1860, certain prominent citizens sent to Boston and obtained some vaccine lymph of the city physician (Dr. Clark) advertised as right from the cow. This lymph was in the dry scab and upon quills, and was put into the hands of Dr. J. T. Battrick, a then practising M.D. there located. He proceeded to vaccinate old and young indiscriminately. The result was four deaths, and any number of very sore arms, and not one genuine vaccination. The Postmaster, Samuel Fletcher, Esq., one of the most athletic men in the town^ oied eight days after vaccination ; Ephraim Wright, Esq., who lived exactly opposite my residence, was also another victim, dying eight days after the operation was performed. A coroner's in ry sat on his (Mr. Wright's) body,* of wnich I' was foreman. It was in session many days, and as foreman it became, of course, my duty to examine the numerous witnesses wno were summoned before via (some fifty- five or sixty), amount them most of the celebrated M.D.'s in this vicinity, and I will say that I never examined but one in the whole number who could tell a spurious from a genuine vaccine vesicle. It is needless, perhaps, for me to say that it made me a determined opponent of the whole theory of vacciHation. - But one person has died of smallpox in Westford for fifty years or more, and he had. ft cicatrix on his arm as large as a 10-cent. piece, where he had been previoudy vaccinated.  Thinking perhaps the above facts might interest you, is my only excuse for addressing you. Should you desire any further facts in regard to this Westford vaccination, all of- which I have in my possession, I will most cheerfully give them to you. I am very respectfully yours, ¦  M. H. Flbtchbr.   A BxADEB of Mr. Taylor's " convincing letter " writes to Mr. Young : - I have always been a be- liever in vaocihation, though I had smallpox in spite of it. But the compulsory use of it, when parents have an objection, is, in my opinion, an act of tyraxmy. If public safety require it, the police oug^ht to enforce it, and see every child vaccinated. Fining, the parents is no protection to the public- The old superstition of priestcraft is now changed to the tyranny of doctors. - T. C.  DEVELOPmSNT OF MEDICAL ESPIONAGE. - Th^  Skipton Local Board has forwarded to the Craven Combined Authority a recommendation that their medical officer be authorised to give a fee of 28. 6d. to any medical practitioner who should report to him a case of infectious disease, and that a similar pecnniary acknowledgment be awarded to any other person who shoiiJd confidentially report such a case to the medical officer where a doctor had not been called in.   THE VAOCINATIOJS^ INQUIRER.   15   MR. HADWEN'S DEFENCE.  At the Axbridge Petty Sessions, on March 13, Jir. Walter R. Hadwen, chemist, Highbrid^e, was sammoned for neglecting to have his child vaccinated, and made an admirable defence, going over the several varieties of blood-poisoning that are described as vaccination, and claiming that if he submitted his child to the Government rite he should have a gnariantee - first, that the operation should do his child no harm, and, second, that he should bever catch smallpox.  Rev. J. Yatman. - ^No one can g^ve you such a guarantee. As a member of society, you must do as society requires.  Mr. HadWEN. - My duty toward God and my child is before any law made by society.  Major Law. - ^As long as the law is as it is, we are bound to enforce it, and you must obey it. If you can get two or three gentlemen as eloquent as yourself to plead'your cause before Parliament, and can get the existing Act amended or repealed, then, the circumstances will be entirely altered. We sit here to fulfil the law as we find it.  Mr. Hadwen.- Then I would respectfully ask that you mitigate the penalty.  Major Law. - The Bench fine you 20s. and costs.  Mr. Hadwen. - Why, that is the extreme penalty ! If it cost me, however, £1,000, I will never submit to such an iniquity as vaccination.  In a letter to the Weston Mercury of March 18, Mr. Hadwen enters fully into his case, and observes : - " I wrote to the public Vaccinator, the Local Government Board, and various eminent men, and I found that I couM get no two opinions alike as to what Vaccine reaUy was, or as to which variety of Lymph should be used. What was praised by one was denounced by Another, and the denunciation in certain instances was in no measured terms. Six medical men assured me there was no Lymph which they could absolutely guarantee to protect from smallpox, nor would they guarantee that it might not contain the most dreadful diseases.  '' What was I to do ? Every medical man, and the Local Government Board into the bargain, told me, in words as plain as speech could make it. If you have your child vaccinated, we cannot say but that he will have smallpox just the same, and moreover take the chance of scrofula, erysipelas, consumption, syphilis, ^ftc, in. addition; but you must have him vaccinated, or you will be fined or imprisoned.  *' I stated my difficulty to the Bench, and in spite of repeated interruptions, I told the magis- trates of my fruitless search for the Pure Lymph which would effectually prevent smallpox, and would contain no syphilitic or scorbutic taint ; and as. the law did not define what Vaccine was, I asked that the Guardians, who prosecuted me, should be ordered to find the Pure Lymph, and give the required guarantee with respect to its properties. They evaded my demand, and told me the only power they had was to fine me 208. and costal This is what is called justice, for sooth!  " 1 maintain that I have not disobeyed the law.   I am willing to have my. child vaccinated tomorrow if anyone will let me have the Pure Lymph, talked of for years, and as yet undiscovered. Let the magistrates, or guardians, or doctors send me a tube containing matter which they will faithfully aver shall prevent smallpox, and produce no disease in my child, and I will submit ; but there is not a soul in the universe who can do it. I have asked scores of medical men about it, but they all evade the question. None dare give the guarantee required, though all are willing to insert some filth or other of which they know nothing, and to pocket a fee for the operation.'*   PERSECUTION OF MR. S. J. WEST.  [Poa Card.']  ''Legal Robbery this day, March 14, 1882. Inspector Fisher and a constable of the Kent County Police robbed my house of two Wheeler and Wilson's sewing-machines, two mahogany washstands, two American clocks, two horsehair mattresses, and a mahogany boot-rack, in order to obtain Conscience Money. •  " 105, Eastgate, Rochester."  In ans^^er to inquiry, Mr. West writes : - ''The fine and costs were originally 29s., to which are now added costs of warrant, levy, hire of horse and trap to convey goods to Chatham PoHce Station, storage, auctioneer's fee, &c. This makes my thirteenth prosecution in respect of six children. Four times I paid the fine ; beven times I gave them the trouble to get their blood-money by distraint ; and twice (better still !) did them out of it by doing a month in a felon's cell. This persecution has ruined my prospects in life, for I have been boycotted in business by the medical fraternity and the magistrates ; but. my loss I reckon as nothing if I have assisted in any degree in overthrowing an evil law, and restoring to Englishmen their rights in their own households. A committee of working-men waited upon me deuring my nomination as Guardian at the ensuing election for the Medway Board, and, much as I covet a seat among the persecuting bigots, I had to decline the honour, not having the means to sustain a contest."   smallPOX IN NEW YORK.  The Lancet of Jan. 14, 1882, states that the small Fox Hospital buildings are, according to the New York Times, unfit to shelter swine. The wooden buildings are all windows and cracks in the sides, and their roofs sieves. The sheds are built upon damp ground, no excavations being considered necessary for buildings to be used by smallpox patients.  Buinoiis, insufficiently heated in cold weather, wanting in the means of cleanliness, the Hospital has gained an evil reputation in the city, and the attempt to remove patients there gives rise to occasional riots. '  Lavish expenditure upon Jennerian superstition, tyrannical imposition of disease upon all comers, and barbarous neglect of the sick - these are strange facts for Bepublioan pride to reconcile with Bepublioan professions. A. W .   16      DEATH OF A NURSE FROM smallPOX.  [On the 19th March, in Gny's Hospital, Clara Faithful Lamlej (Sister Clara), eldest daughter of Major Lumley, of Sutton, Surrey, of  smallpox , contracted in the conrse of her duty, aged 82:]  A GOBBBSFONDENTy wriiiog to the Times of March 21, says : - " Miss Lumley (Sister Clara), a daughter of Major Lumley, late of Northampton, died on Sunday morning, after a short illness, from hsemorrliagic smallpox, contracted in the discharge of her duties as a hospital nurse. Sister Clara had had charge of the male accident ward at Guy*8 Hospital for upwards of two years, and had hy her zeal, intelligence, and indefatigable industry, combined with her kindness to the patients, gained the confidence and esteem of the surgeons and of everyone whose good opi- nion was worth haying. She was trained origi- nally at the Leicester Infirmary, where she did much hard work with great zeal and success. The circumstances of her death, which are unusually distressing, were as follows : - A man was brought into the accident ward of Guy's Hospital on the 26th Feb. who was said to have fallen from an omnibus, with an extensive wound on the back of his head and with symptoms of concussion. On the day following he was noticed to have an eruption something like smallpox, but he said he had bad a similar one some weeks before, and so no special notice was taken of it. On the evening of the following day it became evident that the man was suffering from the worst forno of hemorrhagic smallpox, and lie was removed to the smallpox hospital, where he died a few hours afterwards. When it was surmised that the deceased might be suffering from severe smallpox Sister Clara refused to allow the ordinary ward nurse to attend the case, but did everything necessary for him herself. On March 11 she was attacked with febrile symptoms. She had never had a day's illness before in her life. The eruption was slow to appear, but it was evident from the commencement that her case would be serious ; her throat became specially affected, delirium and restlessness set in, and she succumbed after eight days' illness.''  Was Miss Lumley re-vaccinated? If not, why • not? If re-vaccinated, why did she catch  smallpox ? and why did she die?   DEATH OF DR. SPINZIG.  Wh regret to announce the death, from paralysis, of Dr. Charles Spinzig, of St. Louis, on Jan. 22. Dr. Spinzig was a native of Hanover, and was born m 1829. He settled in St. Louis in 1862, and devoting himself to medical studies, graduated as Doctor of Medicine, and commenced practice in 1858. He was at one time Resident Physician of the City Hospital, and for four years served as a member of the Public School Board. During the war he was a regimental surgeon. It is related of him that while on duty at Atlanta he was reprimanded for furnishing professional advice and medicine to sick rebels, and when told that he made himself liable to eourt-martial, replied that he knew he did, and if his superiors would arraign bim, he   would plead guilty. His opposition to  vaccination (set forth in a number of argumentative works) subjected him to much professional obloquy; but he maintained his convictions unflinchingly, with a courage beyond the reach of ordinary men. In spite of his heresy, he was held in general respect in his adopted city ; and the large concourse at his funeral attested the love and esteem in which, as a good physician and worthy citizen, he was regarded.   DR. PEARCE'S " VITAL STATISTICS."  This long-expected volume is now ready, and will be found a useful handbook in the  vaccination controversy. In order to extend its circulation, the price has been fixed at 2s. 6d., and Mr. William Young, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster, will supply copies at the rate of not less than six for lOd. until June 30. We would urge our friends to be liberal in their purchases, and to place the book in the hands of editors and medical men they desire to inform and influence.   Compulsion in Chicago. - The Germans who have been arrested in Chicago for refusing to permit themselves and the members of their families to be vaccinated have plenty of precedents in Germany and England to justify their action. If a man honestly and intelligently disbelieves that the injection of a poison virus into his veins will prptect him against smallpox, it seems a wide stretch of the functions of law to ptinish him for acting upon his convictions. As long as the utility of vaccination is challenged by a large body of people, including many physicians, the propriety of making it compulsory is, to say the least, very doubtful. - New York Tribune.   Mb. Wm. Thos. Wiseman, of the City Liberal Club, and a member of the Lambeth Vestry, has entered his protest against compulsory vaccination in a pamphlet entitled " Vaccination and  smallpox ; by Abdiel." Mr. Wiseman is naturally most at home in metropolitan matters. He publishes a letter from an eminent physician (withholding his name), who says : - " Medical men are not to blame for * puncturing babes,' or adults, if the law requires it. There are thousands of medical men who would never vaccinate again if the compulsory law were repealed."  Thk Cologne Congress. - We have received from Dr. Hubert Boens, of Charleroi, a pros- pectus of a volume he Has in preparation containing the Correspondence, Papers, and Discussions of the International Anti- Vaccination Congress, held at Cologne in October last year. The volume will be endtled '' La Vaccine an Point de Vue Historique et Sciestifique,'' and the price will be 10 francs. We hope Dr. Boens may receive a full share of English support in his useful enterprise, which it is needless to say will be produced in a style whereof there will be every reason for satisfaction.   He who knowi onfy his own ride of the oese, knows little of th"fc.--J. BrvJjn Mill. Frejndiee, which aeee what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.- Aubbst Di Ybbb.   i^l^e Uacdttatiott Ittrpiirer   jflnd df^e.aLth. I^ealeui.   Vol. IV., No. 38.]   MAY, 1882.   [Peicb Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.   Dr W. B. Gabpbnteb has returned to the charge with an article entitled, '' smallpox and Vaccination in 1871-1881,'' in the April number of the Nituieenth Century. Amazing is man's power of self-illusion under the domination of fixed ideas, as Dr. Carpenter has taught^ and flagrantly illustrates in his own person. He opens his disquisition with the assurance that he comes to his task in a judicial frame of mind, and with the same spirit and temper that he would bring to ''the Batbymetrical distribution of animal life in the Deep Sea." A friend called on Lord Macaulay to lay before him a certain matter of business, and in reporting the interview observed, '' I spent exactly an hour with his Lord- ship, and found it hard to get a word in edgeways. Li the sixty minutes, I did not occupy five. Imagine, therefore, my surprise, when I rose to depart, in Macaulay saying, ' You will excuse the small share I have been able to take in this conversation; for, as you see, I am labouring under a severe attack of bronchitis.' " Dr. Car- penter's judicial temper is like Macaulay's silence - conspicuous by absence. Throughout his paper he lets slip no opportunity of striking out ad captan^ dum vuJffue, We Anti- Vaccinationists are attempting '' to terrify ignorant and credulous fathers and mothers into resistance to the wise and beneficent law which is so unmistakably working for the benefit of their children ; " we are *' successful enough among uneducated and easily-prejudiced parents to keep up an ever-renewed mass of easily-ignited fuel, in the shape of unvaccinated children ; " and so forth and so forth- statements that are without warrant, and that Dr. Carpenter does not himself seriously believe. He even condescends to pick up the dropped lies in the case of Mr. Escott, of Hotherhithe, and to fire them off afresh ! And all this is done under cover of the judicial temper that he would bring to ** the Batbymetrical distribution of animal life in the Deep Sea."   A KOTBWOBTHY instance of Dr. Carpenter's method of advocacy is seen in the stress he lays upon the asserted death-rate of 44*6 per cent, among the unvaccinated in the London Hospitals. As is well-known, the rate is fixed at 44*6 per cent, by the hospital officials, and has passed into a sort of irrefutable common-pUce, designed for our confusion, in company 'mth the re-vaccinated nurses, who never catch smallpox; and as a source of prejudice it suits Dr. Carpenter exactly. We, on the other hand, challenge the accuracy of the figures. There was a time, we say, when all smallpox patients were unvaccinated, and evidence is abundant and indisputable that they then died at rates ranging from 15 to 26 per cent. In the Edinburgh Review for 1806, we read, '< Of those who have smallpox naturally, one is found to die in six." Now, i such was the death-rate in ante-vaccination times, how does it approach 50 per cent, at this day? As has been said, '' If the unvaccinated really die at the rate of 44*6 per cent., they must get murdered by bad treatment." When, however, we take the total of smallpox cases in the London Hospitals of this day, and the total cases in the Hospitals of last century, what do we find? Why, that over the totals, the percentage of mortalities is practically identical; wherefore, we argue, there must be some mistake in the classification that assigns 44'6 per cent, to our unvaccinated contemporaries ; as, indeed, we know there is, nearly all bad cases with invisible vaccination marks being registered as unvaccinated. Thus we account for the deadly statistics advanced against us, and at the same time solve the mystery. We have, therefore, no hedtation in denouncing the 44*6 percentage as inaccurate, and we further say that before any tribunal, or in any public meeting, our contention would be recogmsed as valid, and a verdict would be given in our favour. The 44*6 per cent is only credited because the proofs of its fallacy are popularly unknown. With these proofs Dr. Carpenter is familiar. They have been brought before him again and again, but he neither sets them forth nor does he attempt to refute them. On the contrary, he represents Mr. P. A. Taylor as wantonly setting at defiance unquestionable medical evidencei and clidmiug to have his contradiction accepted on the bare force of his assertion. Such, however, is judgment in the spirit and temper that Dr. Carpenter would bring to '' the Bathymetrical distribution of animal life in the Deep Sea I "   No defence of vaccination is thought complete without the production of the re-vaccinated Hospital Nurses ; and in their asserted immunity from infection Dr. Carpenter is an unqualified believer. We have so often dealt with the Nurse Fable that it is Hardly necessary to discuss it afresh; but we may put this question to the credulous : '' If the re-vaccination of nurses saves them from smallpox, why does not the re-vaccination of our soldiers and sailors save them likewise? " Unlike the nurses, they are not exposed to infection, and yet, from 1859 to 1876, there were 1,306 cases of smallpox in the Army, and 686 in the Navy. Whilst, as matter-of-fact, it is untrue that re-vaccinated nurses always escape smallpox, their general exemption is not, in any way surprising. Dr. Henry D. Littlejohn of Edinburgh, Medical Officer to the ScotUsh Board of Health, has recently communicated to the public his experience in these words : -  '' As a rule, it is rare to find nurses affected who live for hours and days at a time in the same atmosphere with the sick, and who at the same time make use of the simplest precautions. It is still rarer to hear of medical men sickening of infectious diseases caught in their practice, and it is well known that medical men never, or very rarely, bring the infection of such diseases to their households.  " For twenty-five years I have been engaged in active sanitary work, and have had, with very limited stoff, to cope with serious outbreaks of Cholera, smallpox, Fever, Scarlatina, Measles, and Hooping-cou^h, and although I have during that period brought up a large family, I have never communicated any of these diseases to my children or dependents, nor am I aware that any of the numerous sanitary inspectors who have acted under me have ever contracted or communicated these diseases while in the public service."  There is nothing extraordinary in this experience of Dr. Littlejohn; it could be confirmed by a multitude of similar testimonies. To speak frankly, the special immunity claimed for re-vaccinated nurses is a piece of artful claptrap designed for popular deception ; and none know its emptiness better than medical men engaged in hospital prnctice. smallpox is pre-eminently a disease of the young, as all who examine records of cases may discover. Dr. Alexander Monro, Professor of Medicine in Edinburgh University, writing in 1765, said, " The inhabitants of Scot- land generally have smallpox in their infancy or childhood; very few adults being seen in this disease ; *' and to a large extent the like was true of other countries. Coming to recent times, in Dr. Seaton's '^Handbook of Vaccination" there is a table showing the ages at which the deaths from smallpox occurred in England during the ten years, 1866-65. Of 42,277 who died, 23,487, or more than half, were under five years of age. 5,190 died between their fifth and tenth year. Of persons over thirty-five years of age, 3,480 died, or less than one-tenth of the total mortality. Here then (added to other causes) we have ample reason to account for such immunity from  smallpox  as nurses enjoy. They have passed the  smallpox  age. If we had the register of nurses in any hospital with their ages stated, we should find them, as a rule, no longer young. As a physician has said, '^ They are hard as nails, and as likely to have smallpox as mumps, measles, or hysterics." The ordinary breed of women who turn into hospitals as nurses are not subjects for smallpox.   Ix connection with the Nurse question, we have to draw attention to a dodge on the part of Dr. Carpenter, which is worth notice, as it is worked elsewhere. Mr. Taylor (following excellent medical authorities) is represented as saying that *' smallpox nurses do not take the disease, because they are * seasoned,' like fever nurses, by constant exposure to the infection." Whereon observes Dr. Carpenter : -  " The least inquiry among those competent to inform him, would have made Mr. P. A. Taylor aware that his statement regarding fever nurses is exactly contrary to fact For it is the well-known and long-continued experience of the old Fever Hospital, that not only almost everyone of its successive nurses and attendants, but its medical officers, with few or no exceptions, had fever at one time or another."  Then Mr. Taylor is severely reprimanded : -  '^ It seems to me he has incurred a most grave responsibility, in endeavouring to set aside a most important evidentiary fact (which even he could not call in question) by a counter-statement, either evolved out of his own inner consciousness, or made on the authority of persons whom he had no right to trust in such a matter, authoritative information upon it being freely accessible to him."  Excellent fooling this, and all the more excellent as we place before us Dr. Carpenter masquerading in the judicial vesture he considers appropriate to the Bathymetrical distribution of animal life in the Deep Sea.   A PRICK, and the bubble bursts. When we say there are fevers and fevers the dodge is revealed. The fever to which Dr. Carpenter represents nurses, attendants, medical officers, and students falling victims is typhus, and not such ezanthamatoue fevers as scarlatina or measles, with which smallpox is allied. Do the nurses of patients in scarlet fever and measles, or their physicians, contract these maladies? The question requires no answer. It may be objected, " Yes ; but scarlet fever and measles are like hooping- cough, chiefly confined to the young." True; and so is smallpox. As we have just stated, 42,277 deaths occurred from smallpox in England from 1856 to 1865, and of these two-thirds, or 28,677, were children under ten years of age. If smallpox is not then mainly a juvenile affection, what shall we call it ? Is it a fever either in character or incidence to be likened to typhus? Yet Dr. Carpenter, to make a point agunst Mr. Taylor, demeans himself to this ptif ul trick, and in his judicial character, too !   Dr. Carpenter compliments the Scots as '' a long-headed people " for their faithful practice of the Jennerian rite, to which he attributes their comparative immunity from smallpox during the past seven years ; but the long-headed Scots can discriminate between just praise and blarney, and blarney is the word for Dr. Carpenter's compliment. The Scots were just as well vaccinated in 1870 as they are today, and were in the enjoyment of similar ezemption from smallpox, whilst their vaccinators were shrieking with delight, " See ! see what we have done I We have stamped out smallpox.'' Their ezultation was speedily cut short. The epidemic of 1871-74 set in, and 6,260 perished. Then (as is usual after a fierce outbreak) a period of ezemption ensues, and lo I untaught by ezperience, here we have Dr. Carpenter calling out afresh, ^ See I see what vaccination has done. It has suppressed small poz in Scotland I " Wait a while, we say ; wait a while. The ezultation in 1870 was equally confident, equally warrantable, and probably that in 1882 will prove equally premature. Dr. Carpenter says : - *  '< The great and continued fatality of smallpox in the principal towns of Scotland during the four years 1871-74, may be fairly attributed in part to the very unsanitary condition of large   parts of them, and in part to the ezistence of a much larger proportion of the unvaccinated residuum than survived in England ; the compul- sory clauses, which took effect in Endand in 1854, not having been introduced into Scotland untU 1865."  We concede the very unsanitary condition of large parts of the towns, but the unvaccinated residuum is, to use his own words, an evolution from Dr. Carpenter's ** inner consciousness." The "long-headed" Scots were vaccinated without compulsion, and the compulsory Act of 1863 (not 1865) was almost superfluous. The Registrar- Qeneral for Scotland was able to report in 1866 that for all practical purposes the vaccination of the people was complete. Where, then, was the unvaccinated residuum? Such is an average ezample of Dr. Carpenters habit and method. The ezplanation he requires he invents ; nor is he hindered by weak scruples.   It would require an article as long as his own to dispose of Dr. Carpenter's fallacies. He re-asserts that the efficacy of vaccination is attested by marks - a notion on a par with the discovery of fortunes in tea-cups. He describes erysipelas as an accident of vaccination, apparently ignorant of the fact that according to Jenner, erysipelas is the note of efficient vaccination. He repeats the assertion that of late years smallpox has acquired a special malignity, in contempt of the evidence of the hospitals, and of the common opinion that under vaccination the disease is growing milder and milder. He teUs us that we are without warrant for our statement that " the unvaccinated belong to the lowest stratum of the population, the catchetic state of whose bodies predispose them to the worst forms of smallpox," serenely disregardf ul of the fact that vaccinators are ezpressly instructed only to operate upon infants in good health ; so that, as Mr. E. Robinson observes, " Hence vaccination positively divides the population into the strong and perfectly healthy, and into the weakly and ailing." But those who have followed Dr. Carpenter in his ezploits as knight-errant on behalf of vaccination vTill have no surprise for these and dmilar audacities.   Hb has been answered by Mr. P. A. Taylor, point by point, in a pamphlet circulated by tens of thousands, and the best reply to his last performances in the Nineteenth Century will be found in a re-perusal of Mr. Taylor's masterly production. Headers everywhere confess the cogency of Mr. Taylor's array of facts and arguments, nor has any serious attempt been made to attack his poei" tions. Mr. Taylor remains unanswered because he is unanswerable, and because those whose interests are bound up with the maintenance of the yaocine rite consider it inexpedient to disturb the public faith - from their point of riew a prudent policy. Dr. Carpenter is of a different mind. He thinks  vaccination  can be defended, and that he is cut out for its champion. But his valour is abundantly tempered with discretion - not to say craft. He knows what to put forward and what to hold back. He avoids any definition of vaccination, aware that it is not one thing, but several things, contradictory and mutually destructive. He represents a unity that is limited to the financial importance of vaccination. He knows a great deal more than he tells. He knows that the confidence in vaccination of many of the chiefs of the medical profession is so qualified, that if the public were aware of the situation every man of sense would eay, ''Hadn*t you better give the whole thing up P'' Dr. Carpenter has, however, elected to sail with the wind, taking care to affront no prejudices, to suggest no doubts, and to catch the cheers of the educated mob - educated, but not in. the facts of  vaccination. He has assumed an ignoble function which in years to come will bear him no credit. Not he who panders to opinion that is triumphant, but he who confronts error and stands up for truth that is neglected or despised inherits that praise which is alone worth having.   Quotations in favour of inoculation never stood higher. The hopes that Pasteur excited have been'surpassed. Professor Koch, of Berlin, has proved that tubercular consumption is the work of parasites, named BacUliy which may be inoculated and propagated; and Professor Tyn- dall, supported by the Times, leads the public to believe that we are on the verge of a momentous discovery; that Bacilli, tamed by culture, will be employed for the inoculation of subjects suspected of tendency to phthisiB, and that the ravages of consumption, that worst foe of huuuin life, will be thereby stayed. Such are the dreams of those who pose before the world as the high priests of science - ^Tyndall's favourite attitude. We have no reason to dispute the assertion that tuberculosis is the work of BaeiUi, but that Bacilli are to be antici- pated or fought by the inoculation of tame BacilU, la a proposition that we take as the last extravagance of the prevalent insanity. All these inoculation projects are based on the for sum'ption that vaccination has arrested and sub-   dued smallpox - so much is taken for granted and indisputable; but if, as we are continually showing, the first premiss is without foundationi what becomes of the marvellous superstructures?   Mb. Cobrib Gbant, barrister-at-law, has been appointed standing counsel to the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination. Among the numerous prosecutions for non-vao- Dr ation, cases are continually occurring of informal procedure, of unjust sentences, and tyrannical exercise of authority; and not unfrequently, if such irregularities were taken up and dealt with vigorously, not only might wrong be redressed, but good effects produced in the administration of justice and on the public mind. The Executive Committee of the London Society solidt information of cases of hardship under the law, and, in concert with Mr. Grant, will endea- vour to achieve whatever relief may be practicable. Communications should be addressed to Mr. Wra. Young, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.  The Annual Meeting of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination will be held in Neumeyer Hall, Hart Street, Blooms- bury-square, on Wednesday evening. May 17, at 7'dO o'clock. The chair will be occupied by C. H. Hopwood, Esq., Q.C., M.P. for Stockport; and the meeting will be addressed by Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., and other well-known advocates of the movement. All who have experience of meetings in London know the uncertainty which attends them, and how difficult it often is to draw out an audience. Distances are great, and engagements are many; but, allowing for the operation of [such hindrances, we would earnestly urge upon our friends the duty of making some exertion, and even some sacrifice of ease and convenience in proof of their interest and sincerity. An annual meeting, numerously attended and charged with enthusiasm, inspires courage and determination in the year to come. Let us, then, have a full and hearty meeting on the 17th of May.  The Bow and Hackney Anti-Compulsobt Vaccination League have achieved a most gratifying victory in the election of the five candidates they supported for the Shoreditch Board of Guardians. Mr. Rogers, a rabid provaccinator, lost his seat on the Board, and the Bev. Mr. Kelly, another of the same order, disappeared with him. The fact is, that when the public are energetically appealed to on the question of compulsory raccination, the response is unequivocal. It is in apathy that the tyranny endures.   .   21   A VIEW OF VACCINATION.  By Alexandeb Wilder, M.D., New York.  Pababise, says Mabommed, lies under the shade of swords. Whoever loves truth, and means conscientiously to pursue it, will find his peace in his own bosom, but abundant storms, malevolence, calumny, and brutal treatment outside. There exists Uttle toleration for a sincere man. The seer will be stoned ; the false prophet, exalted as a scientist, directing and instigating the act. He is the overlord. Such scientists occupy a very narrow place, and are apt to be bigoted and intolerant.  There exists at the present time a smallpox epidemic in the United States. It is no marve- lous, or unusual matter. There have been such, in repeated instances heretofore; and in a few years we shall certainly have another. It is a siffnificant fact that such epidemics frequently follow epidemics of dysentery and choleraic disease. It ought also to be noted that examinations of the bodies of persons dying of malignant dysentery, have exhibited ulceration of the uning membrane of the intestines which bore a striking analoffy to the pustules of smallpox. These facts have led some carefully-thinking persons to believe that there was a close relationship between the two ailments.  If this supposition is correct, it is evident that the same agencies will produce an epidemic of each malady, and that it is idle to hope to obviate either, except by means equally certain in regard to the other. Any such means must relate to the improvement of the general health, and not be directed to the peculiar form of mani- festation. The same sanitary agendes which will prevent or remove one form of zymotic disease will be equally efficient against the others ; and the remedy or protective agent which will assure against one will answer equally well against the others. This is common sense, and any cool, dispassionate thinker will perceive its accuracy.  These have been our convictions for many years. What observations we have been enabled to make, have seemed to fully justify them. We have never been zealous to thrust them before the public, for we are not of a belligerent disposition. We have been disposed to wait for such conditions of popular sentiment as would favour their dissemination. When one person, of thoughtful turn, attains the perception of an important truth, it generally happens tiiat he is not alone. Others, often in no communication with him, except by those mysterious avenues which really connect like with like, however remote in other respects, will arrive at like knowledge and conviction. In such patience and such confidence, we have waited for many years, to mature our own conceptions and find out others of like valuable attainments.  Clearljr, if smallpox is a zymotic disease, it will originate from causes like measles, scarlatina, diphtheria, typhoid fever, dysentery, etc. It is not sound reasoning to claim that it has a specific remedy or prophylaxis which its kindred diseases have not. If vaccination is in any degree protective against smallpox, it ought to he equally so against diphtheria, scarlatina and dysentery. We will pass over the suggestions of some advo- cates of vaccination, to poison healthy persons   with diphtheria-germs and syphilitic virus, as means to mitigate or protect against contracting the diseases in the usual way, but these things have been proposed.  Our personal observation, somewhat limited, we acknowledge, has been sufficient to convince us that as a preventive of smallpox, and an agent to arrest and terminate a smallnox epi- demic, vaccination is of no account whatever. We have believed differentiy, and reluctantiy gave up that belief. But we saw persons whom we had known from early infancy succumb to smallpox ; and we observed that the persons most read^ to be frightened and have panics about contracting the disease were vaccinated individuals. They seemed to be afraid of takine the disorder themselves. We could not avoid the conclumon that vaccinated persons, those moat strenuous for vaccination, had very Httie faith in its efficacy. We have seen no reason to change that conclusion.  Heading and a somewhat extensive correspon- dence and comparison of views, disclosed to us that many of the clearest-seeing, most cultivated minds of Europe cherished views like those to which we had arrived. The world-famous Baron Alexander von Humboldt was unequivocal and energetic in his denunciations of vaccination. ** I have witnessed its mischief,'' said he, " in Eng- land, France, and Germany.'' Such an utterance, and from such a man, was calculated to impress a thoughtful mind very fordbly. A distinguished phyddan of England, accomplished as a scholar, rare in his eruaition and physiological attainments, J. J. Garth Wilkinson, whom from early manhood we have delighted to honour, gave a like testimony. We do not hesitate to affirm that if Dr. Wilkinson's tracts and papers on this subject could be placed in every English-speaking family in the world, not only would every statute and ordinance which now lawlessly compels vaccination, Ije speedily abrogated, but wnat we condder this atrodous practice of blood- poisoning, would itself permanentiy end. It seems to us impossible to read these papers and not be convinced. Professor Frauds William Newman gives his views on the matter in a manner too f ordble and indisputable to be passed over in silence except as a tacit confession that they cannot be refuted. The professors in various univerdties of Europe and England denounce the practice ; several of them because their own chiloren had been diseased and ruined for life frum disease thus inflicted on them. We, too, know of such.  smallpox is most frequent among the foreig^n population in our tenement houses; and it is common to assert that they are not vaccinated ; yet, if we are rightiy informed, they have gene- rally been vaccinated perforce in Europe, where, under paternal and despotic governments, such things are compulsory. The^r certainly have good cause to be prejudiced against it from actual knowledge and experience* There as well as here, in hospitals and elsewhere, the cold-blooded cruelty of nurses and physicians is inflicted on them. But the common assertion that they are not vaccinated is made vrithout proof.  We are often asked for statistics. Those who ask are not aware that anti-vaccinators are not   22      permitted to gather them. The officials of statistical bureaus will remoye and clerk or sub- ordinate who is known to hold such convictions. In this city, on one occasion that we know, the officers of the bureau chan^d the return made bjr a very intelligent physician, where the patient died from vaccination. When, therefore, persons who write against yacdnation make use of statistics, they only use those which have been compiled, and perhaps manipulated, by their adversaries. If they are false statistics, the anti- vaccinators are not the liars in the case.  It is not convenient or agreeable for us to contest our views in the public journals. We are not aggressive. We are simply inquirers for truth, and desirous that truth shall be of service toothers. Argument, however conclusive, never convinces anybody who is not viilling. We have no passion for notoriety ; and the public press of this city is to a ^at degree closed against us. Several of the public journals contain articles and accounts of what are called '' interviews "with certain men ; and we have good reason to believe that the " distinguished physicians " who are made thus conspicuous in particular daily journals pay for the use of their columns. It is a mode of advertising themselves, and an artifice to crawl around their own code of ethics.  Such men vdll not ai^ue. The^ are unable. They are moral cowards. They will only speak where there is nobody to reply. they will talk after the manner of ruffians and blackguards, using the slang of the assassin ; will storm and browbeat - for they are not gentlemen ; they vnll pretend to be the scientists, when they know that they would not accept an angel from the blithest or the most learned man on earth as a scientist who did not subscribe to their creed \ but they will never submit to any candid comparison of views. They dare not. They want only a discussion where they may do all the talking and be abusive and untruthful without stint. A free debate would offend them mortally. Notice their imperious mandate to the journals forbidding them to print any paper or statement adverse to vaccination. Notice, too, that the journals obey 1  Society as now arranged is for the strong against the weak. Mi^ht is the right. Power vTithout responsibility is now dominant in this matter. We must let the billow of infatuation sweep on, and bide our time. Yet we are not disheartened. We go through the bog planting our feet wherever we find firm ground, and fol- lowing toward the light.  In the long run the truth will win the day, even though we do not live to see it Men of conviction will accomplish the work, despite those whose prindples and endeavours are in the market. We suffer and are defeated, but the cause will live. The ^1 of hemlock did not extinguish Socrates or philosophy. The flaying of Mamcheus did not pex^tuate the dominion of the fire-worslup in Persia. The senseless tirades uttered by the most overbearing men of New York, printed by their favoured journals and copied elsewhere, will not arrest the undercurrent now setting in. At this very moment a large percentage of the physicians of the United States are doubters of the utility of vaccinating. In a few weeks the smallpox epidemic will pass away; and before we have   another, we have good ground for the hope that the whole civilised world will have reviewed this matter, and recorded its verdict on the other side. We shall then have done with the absurd mdceshift, and combat pestilence thenceforth like rational men, by hygienic and sanitary provisions. We now declare : -  1. No proof whatever from scientific sources exists, or is pretended to exist, in behalf of vaccination ; but only the evidence of ridiculous statistics - ridiculous because ill-imagined from the beginning, and variously self-refuting. It is as easy to prove from the statistics that vaccination arrests or prevents diphtheria, as that it arrests an epidemic of smallpox.  2. smallpox has become more and more preva- lent in England, more and more fatal, since vaccination has been made compulsory. It cannot be different in America.  3. Vacdne virus, for it is not lymph except by misnomer, is constituted of blood-corpuscles in the progress of destructive fermentation ; and, for that reason alone, it is a physiological crime to infuse it into the blood.  4. Whatever smallpox is, as a disease, it can- not be properly treated by an agency whose tendency is to retain its elements and causes in the body.  5. A large majority of persons are proof against smallpox u any epidemic ; and for all such, under any theory, vaccination is useless and injurious. To boast of the excepting of such by vaccination is senseless.  6. Consumption is most rife where vaccination is most general.  If the men who now so vehemently abuse anti- vaccinators had lived a century ago they would not have scrupled to do the same thin^ to Edward Jenner, vilifying him, if not murdering him outright ; for they do exhibit the murderous diathesis. We may safely predict, that if such men live a century hence, which we pray may not be the case, they will want to pillory, imprison, and put to death the vaccinator as an enemy of the human race. '* They are their own witnesses ; they see not, nor know ; else they would be ashamed.^  They are now like the Fiery Dragon of the Apocalypse - ** having great wrath because they know they have but a snort time.''  We are on the side of reason, philosophy, and true science. We shall speak and bide our time, and our utterances on this subject will live through the centuries. Our crusade against vaccination is a struggle of health against d&ease, of virtue against error, of truth against falsity, of life against death. We are human healers, seeking to utter and disseminate the views -which we are convinced are most beneficial to our kind. We believe in what we utter, and, believing, mean to live up to it. Even though overborne by the madness of the hour, our triumph is sure.   BoviKE Vaccination. - The Providence Journal reports that in one of the towns in Rhode Island, the pnblio vaccination, done by order of the town, has been followed by serious results. It is said that every person vaccinated has had trouble, either rash or eryaipelaef with great swelling and delirium, and in some cases more serious ailments.   .   23   DR. ANDREW BUCHANAN TO KENTIGERN.  4j Alhol-place, Bath Street, Glasgow,  April 17, 1882.  My bbab Sib, - In reply to your letter in the last number of the Vaccination Inquibeb, I feel that I must put forth my utmost strength in contending with no ordinary antagonist. You commence by unnerving my arm, by saying to me words of even surpassing kindness, that I declare if I were only convinced, it would be to me a gratification to deliver up my sword to so generous an opponent. You appeal also to my candour, and you are quite n^ht in supposing that if I were convinced, I would at once confess that I was yanquished. But I am by no means convinced) and I hope to be able to show you good reason for adhering to my opinion. But I use., a wrong word when I call you and Mr. Taylor opponents. Are we not all engaged alike in endeavourinf^ to establish the truth on a most important public question? and if we succeed in doing so, we shall all heartily rejoice.  Your main argument, as I understand you, is this: - ^That during the last century^ smallpox was just as mild a disease as it is now ; and you adduce the irrefutable testimony of the great Sydenham, of Isaac Massey, and of Sir Hans Sioane in proof of your averment.  All epidemic diseases are subject to similar changes, which Sydenham ascribed to the epi- demic constitution of the air. This we now know to be erroneous ; for ever since the atmospheric fdr was first accurately analysed by the French chemists, there has not been the slightest variation in its constitution. But, nevertheless, the fact is incontestable! and in my Lectures on Pathology, I have been in the habit of imputing it to some cosmic influence, of which we are confessedly ignorant, offering as a mere conjecture, that it might be due to the continual shifting of the Magnetic Poles of the Earth.  In the year 1828, Dysentery set in upon Glas-  few with its utmost fury, although it had not een known here as an epidemic since far back in the last century. It continued prevalent in the autumn for a good many years, and then gradually subsided.  To^ta^e a more pregnant instance still. In 1831 we were attacked by the Malignant Cholera, which had never before, so far as is known, visited the British Isles. We heard of it coming nearer and nearer, from east to west, advancing upon us like an invading army. It landed at Sunderland; thence it leaped down to Mussel- burgh in Scotland; whence, passing all inter^ mediate places, it appeared at Kirkintilloch, where I first made its acquaintance. Soon thereafter it broke out in Glasgow, and where do you think it first appeared ? Not, as you might think probable, in the Saltmarket and the Goosedubbs, but in the most aristocratic dwellings in Glasgow. The first case occurred at the corner of Blyths- wood- square and West George Vstreet, whence, by a singular but characteristic caprice, it trar veiled down the north side of the street, leaving the south side untouched.  To take one instance more. The Epidemic that we most dread at the present day is Scarlet   Fever; and not without cause. I recollect of four boys, all of them in good health, playing together on a Saturday afternoon, at the comer of Blythswood-equare. In the course of the next week, they were all of them taken ill of Scarlet Fever, and before the week ended three of them were in their graves. Now, this same disease Sydenham describes as a mild disease, readily yielding to the most simple treatment.  You see, then, that I fully grant your premisses, but I deny in toto your conclusion. You overlook the all-important circumstance, that in all the instances I have mentioned the mild cases and the severe were all in the same category. Now it is widely different as to smallpox, in which there are two distinct categories : one consisting of cases that have not been vaccinated, or in which the vaccination has failed of its effect, and the other of cases that have been successfully vaccinated. Now I beg you will carefully consider the vast difference. In the former section, the mortality has been pretty uniform ever since I first saw the disease in 1819-20, namely, 1 death in 8, to 1 in 6 or 6 ; while in ^e latter section, during the whole period of my profesdonal career, the mortality has been about one death in three hundred cases ; and during a later period, namely, during the last forty-five years, Dr. Stewart, one of our most eminent physicians in Glasgow, writes me that he has not had more than oiie death in four thousand cases. See Medical Press and Circular of 6th April, p. 306.  As to the day dreams of Jenner about extir- pating the smallpox, had he lived longer, he would have seen them to be delusions. The glory of Jenner, as I have already said, consists, not in extirpating, but in mitigating the  smallpox , which, as I have also said, is as rife as ever. And how can it be otherwise, seeing that the disease bids defiance to all quarantine regulations; hundreds of men, women, and children mingling in society, and following their usual employments, not knowing, and not suspected of being each of them a focus of the contagion of smallpoxP  I have exhausted my argument, and conclude, as you do, by appealing to your candour.  Yours most truly,  A. Buchanan.   KENTIGERN TO DR. BUCHANAN.  My dbab Sib, - ^Your reminiscences of epi- demics in Glasgow are extremely interesting, but I am not disposed to admit what they seem intended to prove. I readily allow that much in the incidence of epidemics is difficult to account for ; but we should not suffer mystery to affect our sense of what is obvious. It is certain that the ill-conditioned constitute the majority of sufferers from zymotic disease ; but at the same time we have to recognise the fact that many in similar conditions enjoy immunity ; whilst others, in good conditions, fall victims - ^like the lads you refer to in Blythswood-square. So much is conceded; and yet it is still to be maintained that health belongs to good conditions of life, and that in such conditions are the trustworthy securities from disease. We are continually confronted with what appear to be exceptional phenomena in   24      nature ; but we find that under patient ol>8eryation their exceptional character diflappears, and that they fall under the rule of common law. We discover that in what surprised iis, the law of life was not broken, but that we had failed to take into account some essential circumstance in our reckoning.  The erratic incidence of the cholera in 1831 may, in some measure, be expliuned by the alarm and mystery that accompanied the visitation. Many terrified themselves into their graves. The function of imagination in disease is far from adequately recognised. I have no faith whatever in vaccination as a preventive of smallpox - rather should I describe it as an excitant of the malady - vet as an incantation I am ready to believe it may nave saved many a one from infection. Persuaded of its protective power, it may act as a charm or amulet, and in fortifying the imagination fortify the body.  It 18 satisfactory to have your repudiation 'of Jennet's claim to extirpate sm*ill-pox - a claim that is perpetuated by the re-vaccinators. What vaccination has manifestiy failed to accomplish, they boldly undertake to achieve by repeated vaccination ; oblivious of the fact, that the strong- hold of smallpox \a in the youth of the communityi wherem any prophylaxy that vaccination may possess is present m all the freshness and fulness of its power. If vaccination does not preserve infancy from smallpox, whom can it save?  You say, however, that it is Jenner's glory to have mitigated smallpox ; but I fail to see how glory can be predicated of one who did not achieve what he asserted ; or why he should be credited with a result that he never designed. A littie girl who had the invention of the telesco]>e described to her, sharply observed, ^'I don*t call that an invention : I call it a fluke." And Jenner*s glory, on your terms, is something of the same kind. But, pray excuse me, I see as little warrant for the mild smallpox induced by vaccination as for its extirpation. Any evidence I have been able to compass, tends to prove that smallpox at this day \a much the same disease that it was a century ago. It might have become milder ; it might have become severer - I should not resent either conclusion ; but so far as I can ascertain, it is neither milder nor severer. Referring again to Isaac Massey's experience, we find mm writing in 1727 as follows :-  " I have a list of the names of 32 children, who are all that have had the smallpox during the last two years in Christ's Hospital, and everyone recovered. I have had, besides, 17 or 18 more in my private business, of whom only one died. Here, then, we have 49 cases of natural smallpox and but one death.*'  With similar experience at this day, it would be sud, " Behold the effects of vaccination I See how it has tamed a dreadful and mortal disease.'* Massey goes on to say :-  " A natural simple smallpox seldom lolls, unless under very ill-management, or when some lurking evil that was quiet before is roused in the fluids and confederated with the pocky ferment."  Jurin (Massey's contemporary) reckoned that of every 100 who took smallpox 20 died ; and Massey indignantly denounced the computation-   he met with no such mortality within his practice. He said : -  " There ought to be no comparison between sick people, well regimented with diet and medicine, and those who have no assistance, or scarcely the necessaries of life."  Massey was right, and Jurin was right, each in his own way. Taking roundly 1,000 cases of smallpox, 2CiO, as Jurin said, would die ; as taking 1,000 cases at this day, 200 die. I am spealdnff roughly, for there are variations; but the hospital returns of this century and last century exhibit a remarkable accord, proving, as I have said, that smallpox was not worse before the introduction of vaccination, nor better since.  In this connection, I may observe, that whilst you maintain that smallpox has grown milder under vaccination, others assert that it has become much more malignant. The conspicuous break- down of vaccination under the epidemic of 1871-74 has compelled this questionable explanation. Dr. Ballard, of the Medical Department of the Local Government Board, discoursed at large at the Conference on Animal Vaccination, upon the inability of vaccination to withstand the fierce variety of smallpox that had developed among us. Vaccination was a first-rate defence against snuill-pox when mild, but not when it was othei^ wise. Dr. W. B. Carpenter is actively engaged in propagating the same opinion ; demonstrating that vaccination is of the least use when most wanted. It is indeed a droll performance, but, alas I we have no Le Sage to do it justice.  When you speak of one death from smallpox in three hundred cases, you refer, I presume, to your private practice, or private observation ; for, of course, in the hospitals a mortality so insig- nificant is not to be looked for. In short, you match your experience with that of Isaac Massey in 1727, and you ought to have the advantage considering the advance made in treatment and nursing in the past century, coupled with your own smll as a physician, wmch has never, I am sure, been surpassed.  Dr. Steward you add, has had more than one death from smallpox in six thousand cases which he has vaccinated, and of which he has preserved the record; but why should such a fact surprise me, or affect my judgment? Who are the infants that Dr. Stewart has vaccinated? Where have they lived? How have they been nurtured? They have been the children of well- to-do Glasgow citizens, girt about with every motherly care, washed, fed, and clad with all the perfection that appertidns to modem life, and jealously isolated from contact with the foul outer world. Whv, I ask, should children so tended and protected either contract or suffer death from smallpox? What is there to wonder at in their immunitv?  But there is another ude to the question, which, when examined, disposes of the advantage claimed for vaccination from experience such as Dr. Stewart's. Scotiand has always been a well- vaccinated country, having from an early date received the Jennerian gospel gladly; and if it were vaccination that preserved Dr. Stewart's children from smallpox, it must equally have saved all other Scottish children equally vacci-   .   25   nated. But did itP Tumiiig to Dr. Seaton's Handbook of Vaccination^ I find that in ten years, 1855 to 18&4y there died of smallpox in Seotland 10.548 persons, and of these how many do you think were children? 8,1 70 were under ten years of age, and of these 7,194 were under ^vq. What I have, therefore, to say is, first, that Dr. Stewart's 6,000 were secluded at the period of life when thdr liahUity to smallpox was greatest; and, second, that a lar^ number of Scottish children equally well vaccmated, but not secluded, and not enjoying the same nurture, not only suffered from smallpox, but contributed four-fifths to the national mortality from the disease - namely, 8,170 out of the total of 10,548.  Wherefore I maintain that not to vaccination, but to their more fortunate lot, was due the immunity of Dr. Stewart's 6,000 children ; and I doubt not to many another gross of 6,000 in similar circumstances throughout the land. It is scarcely possible to conceive a greater difference in the conditions of human life than exists between the infancy of the upper classes and the iitfancy of the lower classes in Glasgow - ^intelli- gence, care, and cleanliness on the one hand; iffnorance, neglect, and squalor on the other. The mfference amply accounts for the absence of smallpox on the one side, and for its prevalence on the other. I would also point out to you how the chances of smallpox diminish with ado- lescence. When, at the age of ten, the boys and girls of the upper classes emerge from their nurseries, f our-nf ths of the probability of death from smtdl-pox have disappeared - supposing the the risk over the whole community equallv diffused. But the risk is not equally diffused. Pre-endnence in the conditions of health is still reserved for those with money in their pockets ; for it is evermore the poor and wretched who keep up the death-rate from zymotic disease.  You appeal to my candour, but you do not lay it under requisition. I have no difficulty what- ever in acknowledging your facts ; but you must perceive theb relevancy to the defence of vaccination has vanished like smoke. We^ often suppose we have good reasons for our o])inion8, and we continue to think them good until they are challenged, when their fallacy is revealed with more or less shock to our mental equanimity. My own confidence in vaccination was at one time serenely invincible, and when a dear friend impugned it, I experienced genuine concern that he should be so misguided. After a while stronger influences were brought to bear. Scepticism was excited, and gradually advanced to utter unbelief; and now I look upon vaccination as one of the strangest delusions that ever possessed the human mind - ^the prey though it be of so many delusions. Yet just because it is so strong a delusion, and is entertained with such sincerity by so man^ good men, it becomes those who have escaped into a clearer atmosphere to exercise patience toward those who remain enveloped in traditional darkness. As for yourself. It pains me to be, even in appearance, your antagonist To your gracious spirit, and to your forbearance, it is a pleasure to respond. Rarely is vaccination thus^ defended ; and I lay down your letter, murmuring to my- self, O! si no onmia, - Yours, respectfully and gratefully, Kbntigbrn.   DR. PETER STEWART AND DR. W. B. CARPENTER.  Dr P£tbb Stbwabt, of Glasgow, in a letter addressed to Dr. Andrew Buchanan, printed in the Medical Press of April 5, says : -  '' I have within the last forty-five years vaccinated nearly 6,000 patients, and ef these not one has died of smallpox.^  How does Dr. Stewart know? Has he kept a register of his patients, and followed them over the earth? And, if true, would the exemption be in any wise surprising? Not one died, but how many contracted smallpox? - Dr. Stewart continues : -  '' I have seen a great many cases of smallpox in persons who have not been vaccinated, and of these one in Jivsj at least, died."  That is twenty per hundred ; but Dr. Carpenter swears that forty-four per hundred of the unvaccinated die, and is aghast with indignation over the presumption of those who question his authorities. The difference is considerable between Dr. Stewart and Dr. Carpenter ; and how is it to be adjusted?  PARENTS' PROTECTION LEAGUE FOR INSURANCE AGAINST VACCINatION.  Why should we not apply the principle of co- operative insurance to Vaccination?  Why should we not band together, and tailing a subscription of 53. a year from each member, guarantee him against loss ; that, if prosecuted, he will be defended ; and that, if fined, his fine will be paid?  Often have I hesitated to advise poor men and timid men to resbt the vaccination of their children ; not sure that they had the cash and the courage for persistent resistance.  On the other hand, if I could say to the most fearful. Join the Parents' Protection League, and you may defy the vaccination officer, how the position would be altered I  Many would join the League and contribute liberally to its funds who are responsible for no children; but I would have a minimum annual subscription of 5s. to attest sincerity, and for that sum would guarantee every subscriber against pecuniary loss.  We are fighting a battle, and it seems to me we foolishly allow privates here and there to sustain the entire brunt of the attack. If, on the contrary, we were united, and repelled every attack in common, we should speedily see an end of compulsorv vaccination.  I submit this project because I feel heart-sick and ashamed when I read of fellow-confessors  ? prosecuted, fined, and imprisoned. It is disgrace- ul to us that they shoula be allowed to suffer in the common cause without active support and sympathy. Let us find means, and quickly, to make the cause of one the cause of all.  Moreover, I am wearv of the struggle as at present conducted. It is an ineffective guerilla warfare. Let us organise our forces, and bring on a dedaive battle. I have no fear for the result. St. Gborgb. COMPLETELY-VACCINATED AMPTHILL.  AmpthilLi a small town in fiedfordsbire, about eight miles south of Bedford, has recently passed through a severe epidemic of smallpox, which for a while caused it to be cut off and isolated as plague-stricken. Dr. Coombs, of Bedford, was ready with the explanation. Addressing a meeting, he said: - '^Vaccination has been greatly neglected in Ampthill and district. / repeat it, that in the past the authorities at Ampthill have greatly neglected vaccination." What could be more conclusive? Ampthill had neglected vaccination, and Ampthill was consequently punished with smallpox. But, unfortunately for Dr. Coombs, and for the sacred rite of which he is a professor, the facts were exactly the reverse of his statement. The inhabitants of Ampthill were vaccinated without exception, had been vaccinated thoroughly and systematically for the past half-centunr, and the public vaccinator has been rewarded by Government for the perfection of his work. The strength of the case may be imagined when it is said that Dr. Coombs has been compelled to retract his statement.  Dr. Coombs sits on the Bedford bench, and, as may be inferred from the foregoing statement, shows a relentless temper toward resistants of vaccination brought before him. Recently Mr. Ashby addressed him as follows : -  (To Dp. Coombs.)  Rose-Yillas, Kempston, Bedford, March 28, 1882.  Sir, - ^I have been deeply pained at the very severe treatment the Bedford anti-raccinators (men honest, inoffensive, and indnstrions) have recently received at your hands. Expressions of sympathy, when followed by the heaviest penalty the law can impose, are meaningless and false. The public generally has no desire to enforce vaccination. Why should the protected fear the unprotected? The fear is unreasonable and self- condemned. The vaccinated who are in fear discredit themselves.  I am compelled to deny the accuracy of your statements with regard to the defect of  vaccination at Ampthill. Who are the wilfully careless authorities ? By whom has the practice been imperfectly conducted? If the vaccination has been bad, it has been paid for as good, and who has had the money under false pretences?  It is my firm conviction that vaccination is a rite whose virtue is entirely illusory. Ampthill is as well, if not better, protected than Bedford ; yet Ampthill is stricken with smallpox, whilst Bed- ford escapes. Why is this? There can be no more conclusive proof of the uselessness of vaccination than that the best-vaccinated districts are often-times most afflicted with smallpox, whilst the least- vaccinated are free.  Your imputation of plausibility and greed on the part of anti-vaccination agitators is as incorrect as you take it for convenient. What we do in opposition to vaccination is done at great personal inconvenience and expense, and were we not tho- roughly persuaded of the propriety of our course, we should, I assure you, at once desist.  If the practice were the boon it is asserted to be, who would neglect it? If it were optional, who would not embrace it? I commend the behaviour of those who refuse to comply with the law, not   because they violate the law, but because they oppose a cruel and delusive superstition, and seek to remedy a base and tyranm'cal injustice ; and I shall ever feel it to be a privilege and honour to assist such men to the utmost of my power.  Believe me to remain the friend of the oppressed,  S. AsHBY.  To this Dr. Coombs replied : -  Bedford, March 29, 1882. Sir, - I have received your letter informing me of your intention to give earnest support to certain law-breakers.  I have no further remark to make on the opinions you entertain.- I am, yours truly,  James Coombs.  We must not lose sight of this Ampthill case. It is said that the Local Government Board intend to open an inquiry and to make a report. Dr. Stevens is the man "for the job: he is war- ranted to drag vaccination out of any difficulty.   The Position in America. - Dr. Dobson, writing from Fairfield, Connecticut, April 12, observes : - ** It strikes us here that in England you are having a Scientific Inquisition established, which bids fair to cast its ecclesiastical predecessor into the shade. Unhappily, we are following closely in your wake ; but there are gleams of light ahead, for the people are beginning to think for themselves, and they will not fail to act with energy when once they have decided. I notice that you urge us to confine ourselves as far as possible to American experience, and to avoid European statistics, which are vitiated with errors it is not easy to detect ; but had you a twelve- months' experience here, you would not tender such advice. It is with  old-world,' cooked-up statistics that our vaccinators scare the people, and it is impossible to obtain trustworthy American statistics. Boards of Health compose our statistics at discretion. They are political bureaux, paid out of the treasuries of the several States, and not burdened with overmuch honesty. It is not, therefore, reasonable to expect returns from such bodies, which would be likely to injure in any way their trade in vaccination."  Generation of smallpox by Vaccination. - Dr. Carpenter says in the Nineteenth Century that the absence of vaccination does not generate  smallpox , but only " renders the population liable to take it when brought into their midst." In Leicester, at the beginning of this year, several cases of sporadic smallpox were reported, which were stamped out by simple sanitary expedients. Inquiries were made by Mr. Dudgeon as to vaccination, and it was found, as in the smallpox eruptions at Harwich, Leeds, and Nottingham, to have arisen amongst the vaccinated. At the International Anti-Vaccination Congress, held at Cologne in October last, municipal statistics from Cologne, Lubeck, Leig- nitz, Bonn, Dusseldorf , &o., were produced, showing that the outbreaks were always amongst the vaccinated. Dr. Jules Guerin, one of the most eminent physicians in Paris, in his address on Dr. Liouville's projSt de loi, before the French Academy of Medi- cine last year, stated " that a number of medical men consider a general vaccination and re-vaccination to be in itself one of the causes of smallpox ; a crowd of the newly-vaccinated to be itself a dangerous centre of infection ; and the 160,000 re-vaccinations in Paris during the siege to be in some degree responsible for the great epidemics of 1870-71."   i  I  f   .   27   NATURE AND VACCINATION.  P&o-VACCiNATO&s Hfisume, and teach people to assume, that everybody will have smallpox. They express this assumption in recommending everybody to vaccinate. Health, the fruit of complete living, like disease, the fruit of incomplete living, pays, according to them, the same penalty. smallpox, a disease of infancy, childhood, and youth, should not be assumed to be everybody's disease. . Immaturity cannot endure, like maturity, that incomplete living which engenders smallpox. Non-attempt to teach what persons are most and least likely to take smallpox shows how unscientific and conformed to custom our practice is. Maturity's robustness, cleanliness, and tranquility, together with those bodily conditions which proper sustenance brings, are, according to hygienic science, fit barriers to diseases. Anti-vaccinators recognise persons whose inherent powers and sustfiining conditions are fit barriers to smallpox, and persons whose inherent powers and stistaming conditions are unfit barriers to smallpox. Pro-vaccinators do not thus discriminate. Even if vaccination were a substitute for smallpox, how superfluous and how unsdentdfic to apply the same quantity of vims to persons susceptible and to persons non-susceptible of the disease ! Admitted that improper sustenance is the cause of smallpox and other contagious diseases; and that medical science teaches that by removing the cause of disease, the cure is wrought ; and that by preventing the cause of disease, disease is prevented ; it is evident that vaccination acts in mscordance to medical science in trying to prevent smallpox without removing the cause. The alternative, offered by falsely assuming smallpox to be everybody's disease, and incapable of existing twice in the same person, was artifidal  smallpox . Artificial smallpox, despite its inefficiency, contagiousness, danger, and fataUty, reigned fifty years. Now it has been prohibited for forty years. In it vaccination originated. Inoculation and vaccination have common characteristics. "Vaccination, like inoculation, is inefficient, contagious, dangerous, and, in many cases, fatal. Both are devoid of science and sense ; both are identical, except in severity; both are called sub- stitutes for smallpox ; both were recommended because of their so-called relative mildness. Both, being untimely and without epidemical dependencies, are artificial. Being thus artificial, Doth are contrary to nature. Being contrary to nature, both are antagonistic to medical science. The object of medical science is to assist nature. Nature s scavenger and sanitary agent, ozone, has not asdsted vaccination nor inoculation. To breed and cultivate pus, virus, disease, death, is not as- sistance to nature. Nature is incessantly removing filth and putrescence. Vaccinators are multiplying the same. Hence antagonism to nature. Phvsiology teaches that destruction, recuperation, and purSication of bodily tissue are incessant; that elimination of effete matter and extraneous substances is an urgent bodily process ; and that, consequently, degenerate inflammatory matter, the retrograde piquet of disease, the embryonic pus from artificial smallpox in cattle, knavishly called pure bovine lympn, cannot be beneficial   to the human organism. If such matter were beneficial, 'signs of elimination would not be so immediate and severe. If it were not antagonistic to bodily well-being, and, therefore, to nature, and, therefore, to science, it would be appropriated to the human organism like proper sustenance. Medical art and scientific physiology are inseparable. ISdentific physiology and nature are inseparable. Medical art and nature are inseparable. Therefore, vaccination, being anta^ nistic to nature, is antagonistic to sdentific physiology and medical art.  RuFus King Noyes, M.D, Lynn, Mass., U.S.A., March 28, 1882.   RESISTANCE TO EVIL LAW.  The Mark Lane Express says i-^^ Many persons whose opnion we respect condemn the refusal of tenants to pay tithes. If the law is unfair, they say, get it altered ; but so long as it is the law, submit to it. That would be a very good plea if our legislators were in the habit of reforming abuses merely because they are abuses ; but so long as outrage or sensational agitation is the onlj sumdent motive-power by which Parliament is set to work, it is not a sufficient plea to satisfy any but the most long - suffering of citizens. Church rates would probably have been levied to this day if Nonconfornusts had not refused to pay them, just as some farmers now refuse to pay Extraordinary Tithes."  It is not pleasant to make the confession, but the fact is so. It is in vain to hope for the repeal of the Compulsory Vaccination Acts by force of the most reasonable and cogent arguments. Government is deaf to verbalremonstrance and entreaty. There is nothing for it but to fight it out - to refuse to submit to vaccination, and to encourage and support those who refuse. Mr. Bright says the law is monstrous, and ought to be repealed, but professes inability to do anything to effect its repeal. It is wide and steadfast resistance alone that will compel our statesmen to do justice. They admit that they can only sail as the public blow, and it is for us to raise the wind.   Eyes have They, bxtt They See Not. - The facts being all on one side, we must now close the correspondence, as it is a waste of valuable space to attempt to argue with an anti- vaccinator. - Msdieal Press cmd Oirevlivr, April 5, 1882.  A Catalogue of Anti-Vaccination Literatube, ^ the latest addition to special bibliographies is just issued by the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination at the modest price of one penny. The list extends to thirty-five pagpes, and includes English, American, Trench, German, Belgian, Swedish, and Dutch publications. These for the most part belong to the more recent phase of the controversy, but some of the writings of Jenner's earlier opponents are included. Although the pamphlet is a substantial addition to the biblio- g^phy of the subject, it is not exhaustive, and there are one or two notable omissions. A biblio* graphy of the writers for and against vaooinatiott would reveal the existence of an exceedingly lasge amount "f literature en the subject.-- Ifanchss^ Oiiardian, April 15. COUNSEL FROM DR. GARTH WILKINSON.  Wbiting to Mr. Tetb, April 3, Dr. Wilkinson says : -  Poor Dr. Cazpenter can do us no better service than to keep his '' of t^zploded fallacies" constantly before the public. He is beyond reason on several subjects ; but fortunately he neglects the axiom, ''Let deeping dogs lie." He keeps the Anti-vaccinators ind^nantly alive, and this increases their number every day.  Only look at the Anti-vaccination movement five years ago, and then at what it is now. We have every reason to be satisfied.  There is no remedy for the " suppression of the truth" by those who hate it. Time and Permstenoe alone can make it heard and obeyed. Our Cause is no worse off in this case than every other pleading of Truth against interested FaLnty.  fiat there is one Iron Rule in War. Do not make a little War. Do not go forth prepared for one battle when you have to face a whole War. Estimate with no sanguine forecast the length of the struggle. Estimate this struggle by the ^ical and honest obstinacy of a Caq>enter. Put before you a whole banded profession of Carpenters, far more stupid than any single Carpenter.  from the first I have felt that we were em- barked in a contest of many years' duration. One moral that comes out of this is, that we must economise our means, and look to an expenditure of future years ; not spending our resources as if the victory was possible in one or two seasons. Discouragement would come of this, and the humiliation of having to disband somewhat at the beginnbg of our campaign. Therefore, do not go too fast.   Medical Supbbstition. - A propensity to attri- bute every ordinary and natural effect to some extraordinary and unnatural cause, is one of the striking peculiarities of medical superstition. It seeks explanations from the most preposterous agents, when obvious and natural ones are in readiness to solve the problem. - J. A. Pabis, M.D.  GoLONBL John Eiddell, 1807. - "As to Dr. Jenner's new mode, it is not the matter of a discovery that fixes the notice and favourable regard of the great public, so much as the manner in which it is introduced and the patronage which may happily accompany it." - OenUemcm'a Magaxinef 1807.  Whebe is Sakbty to be Found ?- When shall we know all the mysteries involved in and surrounding smallpox ? Why was Jumbo vaccinated before he landed on American soil? Was the operation suooessf ul? Is there any connection be- tween Jumbo and pigeons and poultry? We see from a publication issued by the Washing^n Bosfd of Health that birds are particularly subject to smallpox, and one authority states that out of a dovecot of one thousand birds, scarcely one hundred were found that did not bear marks of the disease. This is alarming, if true; and, if true, we shall expect to see an agitation commenced to vaccinate all the birds under the domain of man. - Echo, April 14.   WHITHER IS PASTEURISM TO LEAD US?  Vaccination 8|S a protection from one special epidemic is a thing which the majority of us nave, rightly or wrongly, accepted as a wise measure, though the anti-vaccinators have shown cause both to doubt the extent of its preservative power, and to credit it vnth certain '^ ghastly risks,'' more terrible than those from which it should shield us.  Accepting vaccinationy however, as a preserva^ tive from one disease, hard will it be when we and our cattle are to try twenty similar preservatives for twenty other diseases? Is it really to be believed that the order of things has been be perversely constituted as that the health of men and beasts is to be sought, not, as we fondly believed, by pure and sober living and cleanliness, but by the pollution of the very fountfldns of life with the confluent streams of a dozen filthy diseases? Mr. Fleming indites a psalm of triumph over the prospect of a boundless field of inoculations just ojMning to the activity of medical men and veterinary surgeons, who vrill go forth like so many sowers to scratch the people and cattle instead of the ground, and drop '' culdvated virus " by way of seed. Are we, then, our oxen, our sheep, our pigs, our fowls (that is to say, our own bodies and the food which nourishes them) all to be vaccinated, porcinated, equinated, caninized, felinized, and bovinated, once, twice, twenty times in our lives, or in a year? Are we to tie converted into so many living nests for the comfortable incubation of disease germs F Is our meat to be saturated with ''virus," our milk drawn from inoculated cows, our eggs laid by diseased hens - in short, are we to breakfast, dine, and sup upon disease by way of securing the perfection of health?  Surely, when this last medical bubble has burst, it will be deemed the emptiest and the ugliest of the long series of which potable gold and the Elixir of Life formed the beginning. - Francbs PowBB CoBBB, in Contenmorary Review, April, 1882.   Cost of Animal Vaccination. - The annual charge on the State for the new station will, we believe, be as follows : -  Director, Dr. Cory £400  Assistant-Director, Mr. Shirley Murphy 150  Supply of Calvea 800  Keep of Calves and Incidental Expenses 250  Attendants 100  Total £1,200  - BritiBk Medical Journal, April 1.  Will Done, Amos Booth t - At Lincoln, on March 30, ten persons were summoned before the city magistrates for non> compliance with the Vaccination Acts. Defendants were represented by Mr. Amos Booth, of Leicester. The vaccination officer having given his evidence in support of the charge, Mr. Booth contended that the prosecution had no ground, in consequence of the proceedings being premature. The Bench decided to dismiss all the cases, saddling the prosecution with the costs. Three times has Mr. Booth overthrown vaccination prosecutions in Lincoln.      29   IS DISINFEOTION A MYTHP  In the TFesleyan Methodist Moffozme tot April is an article on the cause and prevention of eindexnic diseases, by the Rey. W. H. Dallinger, r.R.S.| in which we read :- '' The mode of propa^tion amongst the very minutest forms of life IS Dj germs of inconceiyable minuteness." These, the writer says, he " has been able to demonstrate : and further, to show that a heat which will destroy the living organism as an adult, is not at all destruetiye of the germ. The germ can bear heat better than the complete organism in the proportion of 11 to 6. Therefore, a destruction of the inconceiyably minute organism in and fluid in which it may exist, does not necessarily kill the spore, ".e., does not devitalise the fluid."  I do not know the method by which the mconceivable is demonstrated ; but this [writer continues thus : - ** Professor TyndtiU has shown the enormous numbers of these germs that are dif- fused through the ordinary air as breathed by man, and we have been able to show that the known and demonstrated germs of certain putrefactive organisms behave exactly as Professor Tyndall's ultrapmicroscopic germs of similar organisms are supposed to do. Thus, then, the organbms found in such enormous numbers in putrescent fluids are also known to exist in the air breathed by man. And, although we cannot here argue it, it is admitted that the contagia of disease as communicated to man and beasts are living."  At the close of the article, the writer says : - " These organisms are extremely minute, inconceivably abundant, prolific beyond all computation. The minutest of the Bacteria (one of the most common putrefactive forms) may not be more than the twenty-thousandth of an inch long and the sixty-thousandth of an inch wide. . . . They can live in a dried condition. They are universal in their distribution. ... If these be the cause of disease, the contagion so perilous to man, how is it (says the vmter) that we are not all and always in a diseased condition P"  Permit me to remark that a further and equally pertinent question arises. If these germs can Dear such excessive heat, either in water or in tar, with impunity, how it it possible to disinfect clothing? And how can we ascertain whether bur methods succeed in destroying the ''inconceivably minute P"  A few years ago one of our medical men publicly stated that he disinfected himself reg^ularl^ after his visits to infectious cases. And it is believed that not even the gloss on his hat was affected by the process. H. D. D.   the " Bannkb of Light." - We have lately received many American newspapers which prove how widely the truth concerning vaccination is being diffused; and if we might single out any newspaper in particular for eminent service in this respect, it would be the Banner of Light, of Boston. The space g^ven to the .'vaccination question has been unstinted, and, considering the prejudice necessarily excited thereby among many of its less enlightened subscribers, the courage and self- sacnfioe of the Editor is entitled to warm oonunendation. We tender him our most hearty thanks.   DR. PEARCE'S VITAZ STATISTICS.  [Pnbliahed by the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination. Price 28. 6d.]  Tms volume is one which will furnish those opposed to vaccination vrith a large amount of statistical information respecting smallpox and vaccination in England, Scotland, Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Kussia, Austria, ete. Some of the stetistics will be familiar to many of our readers, having been extensively circulated, and largely quoted from, in recent years. We are sorr^ that so much prominence has been given to continental countries, and that more fresh material in respect of our own country has not been included.  For instance, we would very much have liked to see a toble giving the deaths by smallpox, and the total deaths, for every year, since the beginb^ of the eighteenth centuiy, and we think there might also be added from trustworthy sources, a table of the smallpox deaths for some of our English towns, for a portion, at any rate, of the same period. We mention these as suggestions to Dr. Pearce, in case of the issue of another edition. Dr. Pearce says (page 27), " 1 submit that we should leave out of consideration altoge- ther the statistics of the last and previous centuries - the advent of vaccination - especially as legislative measures have been enacted to enforce an experiment, the result of which I undertake to demonstrate has been a failure." The argument we admit, but the appeal to the experience of former years is taken oy our opponenta as settling the question, and we cannot avoid bringing it into almost every discussion.  Dr. Pearce's book will be valuable as a repertory of facta, rather than as a sustained argument ; though we are inclined to think that any one looking at the question of vaccination by the light of its pages for the first time, would be obliged to go so far as confess that there was great ground for calling in question the value of the rite.  The view which Dr. Pearce has held for many years, that the death-rate is low in those years when smallpox most prevails, finds strong confir- mation in these pages. The smallest death-rate from all causes between the years 1888 and 1869 was in the first five years of the period, and we notice that the lowest death-rate for children under five years of age is found in the same period.  On one or two pointo we offer a little friendly criticism. Dr. Pearce speaks of the increased severity and malignancy of smallpox after vaccination has been so extensively adopted. He appeals to hospital reporto in proof of this, with- out citing from them the facta which lead him to this conclusion. We think he is mistaken, and that the disease is no more severe or malign than in former experience ; and had he used the figures which Mr. Gibbs has so successfully imported into our controversy, showing that the fatality of smallpox, as observed by Dr. Jurin and others prior to Jenner, and hosjutal doctors since, is the same, he would have seen that from a statistical point of view the argument cannot be maintained. Vt, Pearce says (on page 10) of epidemics, that we have no control over their causes. We think   30      this is a slip of the pen, for on page 25 he has described the causes of some epidemics as oyercrowdingy absence of personal cleanliness, dirty habitations, etc., and says: "No wonder  smallpox  and plagae were so malignant.'' One other mistake we would like to notice. On page 159, Dr. Pearce gives the vaccinations by public vaccinators from the years 1873 to 1879 as the number ef persons successfully vaccinated. To these should be added a number varying from 20 to 30 per cent, certified b^ private practitioners.  We hope Dr. Pearce will not think us captious if we say that we cannot quite foUow his argument on "pages 130 and 131. The word " fewer " in the first sentence, on page 132, should be '* more," unless the figures at the foot of the previous page are wrong; and the argument that cholera did not raise the death-rate in 1849 and 1850 taken together, is not confirmed by the experience of 1855-6, when the deaths by cholera certainly appear very greatly to have raised the death-rate. We think this point is deserving of more extended examination, and we can see no reason for pushing any argument against vaccination to such extreme as this. Having said thus much in criticism, let us commend the work to the increasing number of anti-vaccinists who take up the pen in defence of their cause. To them it will be found very valuable, and will frequently furnish the information reauired to show the fallacy or inexactitude of tneir opponent's concludons, drawn, as they so frequently are, from a contracted area, or from a few picked years.  We appreciate Dr. Pearce's thoroughness when he says, " the day is not far distant, it is to be hoped, when a similar law will be applied to the vaccinator and in oculator alike." Our work will never be completed until this is done. And while we are content to take any and every instalment on the road to this our goal, we hope the oppo- nents of disease inoculation will never rest until the practice is entirely prohibited. - A. W.   OuB Gentle Critics. - "Vicarius Ruaticus," writing to the Standard to complain of the circulsms he is pestered with, specifies *' the nsnal appeals from the most pestilent of modem superstitions, the Anti- vaccination  League ; " and the Editor, taking up the strain, descants upon the *' Anti-  vaccination  Idiots." We are sometimes charged with harsh language, but surely never with such brutalities.  smallfox in Halifax. - There have been seventeen cases of smallpox in Halifax, and Dr. Ainley, the Medical Officer of Health, finds it har^ to ac- count for them. He has nothing to say for vaccination : that was impossible ; for, as Mr. S. Knowles reports, "a vaccinated person was the first attacked, with three vaccination marks on each arm as large as a shilling, notwithstanding which he died." Dr. Ainley traces the outbreak to London, " which is so full of smallpox," and with which Halifax is in daily intercourse ! Yerily, it is marvellous that men accounted rational should vend such rnhbish, and that others should receive it for gospel. How does Dr. Ainley account for extensive districts of London, and hundreds of thousands of Londoners escaping that smallpox from which Halifax, 200 miles off, is not secure?   TESTIMONIES OF MEDICAL MEN ON THE DANGERS AND FATAL CONSEQUENCES OF VACCINATION.  [Published by the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory  vaccination . Price 8d.]  This pamphlet is composed of carefully-selected passages from the writings of medical men upon vaccination during the past eighty years. Many persons are more influenced by professional authority, especially medical, than by any arguments based on scientific grounds ; and for such, these *^ Testimonies " will afford matter for serious reflection.  It is by no means creditable to a great country like England, that by means of haphazard perfunctory legislation, most grievous and cruel wrong can he inflicted on educated, conscientious, law-abiding people. Laws may be enacted under our present system without attention from the majority of the legislature, and even on false pretences. This was the case in regard to compulsory vaccination, as proved by the testimony of the Peer, who was imposed upon by office- seekers to introduce the Bill in 1853, and carry it through a somnolent House of Commons just at the close of the cession - it having previously passed the Lords.  Lord Lyttieton, who was prevailed upon to initiate the measure, drawn by his own solicitor, afterwards declared that he did so on the assurance that the whole medical profesnon concurred in the value and necessity of vaccination. This assertion can be made no longer. These collected opinions of members of the medical profession all over the civilised world, conclusively prove that Lord Lyttieton was grossly imposed upon by Dr. Seaton, Mr. Marson, and other promoters of the insidious Bill, by which the said gentiemen got into office. These medical opinions are accompanied by an Index, for easy reference, and those which treat of animal lymph are distinguished by an asterisk.   " Testimonies of Medical Authomtibs on Yac- cination." - ^A " cloud of witnesses" - tempestuous, dark as Erebus - threatening the theory and practice of vaccination. - Alliance NewSy April 22.  Mb. W. J. Collins, M.B., B.S., B.So., delivered a brilliant lecture on " Compulsoxy  vaccination  " at Eastbourne, of which a full report appeared in the Eastbourne Courier of April 5. It is much to be desired, if the duties of Mr. Collins permit, that he should repeat such lectures in many places.  Justifiable Solicitude. many of the dwellers in my vicinity are a little alarmed to find some medical men advertising vaccination from the calf as being free from the dangers of arm-to-arm vaccination. What does this mean ? Are there dangers in the arm-to-arm operation ? and if so, why have we been ordered to practise it, and for thirty years post, fined if we do not ? If these doctors, who are all specially ardent vaccinators, are correct in making this move, then, surely, our children have been cruelly dealt with, and as surely the anti-vaccinators have been right in their agitation. - Brighton Standardj April 1, 1882.   THE VACCINATION INQUIREK.   31   STATB-MEDIOAL BEVIVALISM OF ANCIENT THEORIES.  The medical profeflsion claims to have made great scientific strides of late in unveiling the mysterious causes of epidemic disease. The following quotation will enable us to judge of the length of this much'boasted stride. In a folio volume of one of the great writers of medisBval times, the famous Spaniard, Alphonse Tostat (Tostati Opera), who flourished four or five hundred years ago, we read, page 231 : - '' Lepra uon causata in ipsis rebus, sed in homine originem habuit; posterius per contactum aliquem adhsssit vestibus et pcuieti- bus ** - " Leprosy has its cause, not in clothes and walls, but within the human frame. When once caused, it can, as it were, by touching, adhere to clothing and walls." In what important respect does this differ from what modem State-medicine says of Scarlatina ? It is generated, we are told, within the human frame, and by a sort of touching can " adhere for many years to clothing and fur- niture." The great medical stride is in reality retrograde. It personifies disease, much as theo- logians personify sin and death. The modern germ theory of smallpox dates farther back into the ages than the era of Tostatus. State medicine, with all the resources of Government at its back, is resuscitating ancient superstitions, quarantine included, thus saving itself a world of trouble. What has been swaJlowed by the people once may, as science tells us, be swallowed again.  H. D. D.   DEATH AFTER (FROM) VACCINATION.  The child (little girl) of Mr. and Mrs. Geall was born on September 4, 1881. It was healthy and well up to February 4, 1882, when it was vaccinated in three places. About eight days after, erysipelas showed itself, and the arm became red and inflamed, two of the places running together. The child became very ill, the inflammation spreading down the arm to the fingers, across the shoulders and chest, down the other arm, over the back and stomach, and to the top of the head - ^in fact all over the body. The child died in three weeks from the performance of the operation.  The doctor expressed to the parents his disbelief in, and objection to vaccination, and the wish that it was done away with. W. T. Martin, Lewes.  The above is the third death from vaccination I have reported during the last few years ; no doubt there have been many more unknown to me. - W. T. M.   Bbv. Rowland Hill, 1807. - "The enemies of vaccination are ever bringing forth their long lists of failures from every quarter. They insist upon it that every subsequent scrofulous disease is communicated by the cowpox." - 0entleman*8 Maga^ zine, 1807.  From Nottinoham. - Here the doctors have suc- ceeded in getting up the gold-producing smallpox scare. It is a fools' march, a rush, a stampede to the vaccine abatioir. There they go. Christian, atheist, healthy, sick, clean, dirty, teetotal, drunken, a universal jostle of heterogeneous qualities. It is difficult to avoid stigmatising it as the old, old story of the rogues riding the fools. Vaccination is only a cheap and nasty substitute for virtue, and, being easier than virtue, has the preference .--^. S.   PROSECUTIONS IN EDINBURGH.  At the Sheriff Court, on April 14, Mrs. Greig, of Moredun Crescent, was charged with refusing to have her son, Frank, aged two years, vaccinated. Mr. Craig, inspector of poor, said that he did not ask for a heavy penalty, as Mrs. Greig OMly refused in deference to the wishes of her late husband. An agent, who appeared for the accused, said Mrs. Greig would not upon any consideration allow her child to be vaccinated, as she held she was not morally bound to fulfil a law which she considered transgressed a higher law, and, therefore, no number of prosecutions nor amount of fines would bring about the requirements of the law in her case. He had the testimony of eminent physicians that vaccination was not a protection against smallpox. Sheriff Hamilton said he did not intend to go into that question, and ordered Mrs. Greig to pay a fine of 10s., with expenses, or, in default, seven days* imprisonment. He hoped Mrs. Greig would think better of the matter. A similar sentence was imposed on Mr. Duncan Napier, herbalist, who had refused to allow his son, aged two years and eight months, to be vaccinated.  At the meeting of St. Cuthbert's Parochial Board on April 21, Councillor Robertson presiding, Mr. Craig aaked for instructions as to procedure in the cases of Mrs. Grieg and Mr. Napier, stating that Mrs. Grieg, while objecting personally to vaccination, also refused to have her child vaccinated on account of a promise to that effect made to her husband on his death-bed. Mr. McCulloch moved that Mrs. Greig and Mr. Napier be prosecuted until they submitted. Mr. Steel said it seemed hard to prosecute a person again and again for the same child, while vaccination was a matter upon which there was a vast difference of opinion, even in medical circles. The chairman said that if they winked at such offences the members of the board might be sent to prison, as had been done in England. (Laughter.) The Rev. Mr. Barclay said there might be a difference of opinion about the wisdom of the law, but they were there, not to legislate, but to carry out the law. After some discussion, in which the Rev. Mr. Macnair asked if they could not forcibly vaccinate the children, Mr. M'Culloch's motion to prosecute interminably was agreed to.  To those who know Mrs. Greig and Mr. Napier, it goes without saying that their patience will exhaust their persecutors. The Board, moreover, are ill-advised in supposing that, the law lays upon them the necessity of perseverance in such discreditable business. It is completely within their discretion to stay proceedings at the present point - as indeed is the habit of many Boards of Guardians, with the sanction, too, of the Local Giovemment Board. Lastly, what shall be said of the two Ministers of the Gospel, Barclay and MacNair ? Do they not prove afresh that when any counsels specially perverse and inhuman are delivered, they proceed from the mouths of ecclesiastics ?   A BEGINNING AT DUNDEE.  Mr. Robert Donaldson, cutler, 87, Nethergate, Dundee, was brought before Sheriff Cheyne on March 29, for refusing to vaccinate his child. He pleaded gr^ilty, and stated, in answer to the Sheriff, that he beHeved vaccination would not do his child any good, and it might do a great deal of harm. - The Sheriff: Who put those foolish notions into your head ? - ^Accused : I have been reading up the subject. - The Sheriff: But all the authorities are against you. - ^Accused : No, there are doctors on my side.- The Sheriff: There are doctors and doctors. However, it is not my place to argue with you. The law is clear, and you cannot be allowed to treat it with contempt. The Sheriff then imposed a fine of 20s., with 30s. expenses, and failing payment within seven days, to suffer seven days* imprisonment.  How costs in Dundee should amount to SOs., when in London they are covered by 4fl., we should like to have explained. The fine, 20s., was the highest the Shenff could inflict.  Mr. Donaldson writes : -  '' Unable to raise the fine and costs, 50s., I had to go to prison, among thieves and ruffians of all sorts. I was called a dirty fellow the first morning because I could not clean my breakfast dish properly; and on the second, a confounded pi^, for not knowing how to make up my bedclothes m prison fashion.  ** Since my release, prophets have arisen. I am told that I shall be ruined in health and pocket if I go on as I am doing. One old lady dragged in the Bible, and maintained that the law of the land, whether good or bad, must be obeyed. She had eight children, all vaccinated, but six of them were dead. I laugh at such admonition ; and as all my counsellors admit that there is some risk of getting poisoned with bad matter, I tell them that is enough for me. I would risk anything but my baimie."   Rev. Mb. Chafin, 1816. - " Of the new fashionable substitute for inoculation, politely nominated vaccination, I know too much to dare to say anything more." - Nichols' Illustrations of Literary History.  What Next ? - Mr. Geotge Bone and our friends in South London, exercised their influence in promoting the return of Guardians opposed to compulsory vaccination for the Gamberwell Board, questioning candidates and letting them clearly understand that their answers would control their votes. This procedure, perfectly regular and justi- fiable, is described by a Peckham correspondent of the Medical Press as *' a base attempt to influence votes," asking the Editor whether Mr. Bone " is not liable to prosecution under the Bribery at Election Act." The Editor replies, " We are decidedly of opinion that he is ! " It would really seem as if our adversaries lose any wits they possess when brought into contact with us and our doings.  A Eemabkable Hospital. - A smallpox and fever hospital, lately erected by the Corporation at Sheffield, has hardly proved a success. Although it has been open for some weeks, not a dozen patients have, it is stated, as yet been taken into it. To make up, however, for this deflciency, the resident surgeon, one of the nurses, and the cook have all been attacked by smallpox. Other servants employed at the hospital have also, it ap- pears, complained of illness, and there is a general impression that the sanitary arrangements of the hospital are not what they should be. It is to be feared that the anti-vaccinationists will make capital out of the misfortunes of this Sheffield hospital; and it would certainly be desirable to know whether the surgeon, the nurse, and the cook who have taken smallpox were duly vaccinated before they entered on their duties.-*-i9f. James*s Gazettet April 8.   OF MANY, ONE.  Law Office, Chablbstov, Kanawha, West Yibginu, March 7, 1682.  To Henry Bergh, Esq.  My dear Sir, - ^I take the liberty of addressing you, the active friend of an animate creatures, and of humanity especially.  I desire to thank you for your able and excellent article, entitled " The Lancet and the Law," in the North American, Review. Oh ! how deeply I regret that it was not published sooner.  On the fourth of last May my dear wife was vaccinated, contrary to her wishes, and only in deference to public opinion, and to that of our physician, I allowed it to be done.  She shrank from the vile operation, and it would not have been performed but for my thoughtless - may I say careless words: "You had better submit ; it can't hurt you."  She submitted because of confidence in my judgment ; when the truth is, I had thought so little on the subject as to have no right to an opinion.  Her blood was poisoned, abscesses formed under the arms, and, probably, internally.  She lingered until Sept. 1, when death relieved her sufferings, and my heart was robbed of the companionship of the sweetest spirit I ever met. To have her thus snatched from me in the vigour of life and bloom of health, is the most crushing bereavement that ever befell me.  While she lingered it became generally known what her trouble was, and I was utterly astounded at the great number of persons who knew of deaths and other serious results from the unnatural practice.  Wishing you abundant success in your useful life, - I am, yours very truly,  H. G. McWhobteb.   Mb. Hebbebt Spenceb, writing in 1851, observed : - " The measures enjoined by the  vaccination Act of 1840 were to have exterminated  smallpox  ; yet the Begistrar-General's reports show that the deaths from smallpox have been increasing." - Social Statics, p. 887.  Gonsistenct. - ^There is no more ignorant and truculent defender of Vaccination among the London newspapers than the Daily Chronicles and in a notice of VitaZ 8f4itistics the reviewer observes, " If the facts are so clear against Vaccination as Dr. Pearce states, there would surely be no need for such indig^nation and stormy lan- gpiage." Very good; but does not the same observation apply to the ChronicWs' advocacy of Vaccination ? At the same time, let us not forget that strong language has its place and use.  Mb. p. a. Taylob, we are glad to observe, has an answer to Dr. W. B. Carpenter in the May number of the Nineteenth Century. It is an encouraging innovation on existing custom to allow any opposition to vaccination to have a hearing. The closure is mercilessly exercised against us in the leading magazines and reviews, under the honest persuasion, we dare say, that we are too wicked and too dangerous to be listened to. It is for us to have patience. Our turn will come, as it has come to many others fortunate enovgh to have had truth and right for allies.   He who knows only his own side of the OMe, knows little of that. - J. Stuxbt Mill. Prejudice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.- Aubbxt Dx Txbs.  i^te Uaaittatiim Jtttpiirer   find d^allh. Steal eui.   Vol. IV., No. 39.]   JUNE, 1882.   [Pkice Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.   Eminently satisfactory was the second annual meeting of t]\e London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination. Neumeyer Hall was filled with an intelligent and earnest audience, familiar with the points under discussion, and qualified to appreciate the address of the learned Chairman. Among those who have conferred scientific form and authority upon resistance to  vaccination , none have rendered more critical service than Mr. Hopwood. The statistical returns he has moved for in the House of Commons have gone to the very core of the question. The Return, Vaccination Mortality, No. 433, 1877, was a result of his demand, and the force of its deadly testimony is attested by the conspiracy of silence that has been preserved towards it. Vaccination has many champions, but one and all avoid that Return. Nothing will persuade them to deal with it, or even look at it. Mr. Hopwood's speech was judicial in tone, and developed in interest as position after position was defined and established. Mr. Tebb was, as usual, serious and impressive, with sentiments firm as his facts ; and his good news from Switzerland came upon the meeting as a joyful foretaste of victory. The Rev. F. Rowland Young put the question in the personal form that is ever piquant and irresistible. Vaccination might be all that is admirable,but enforce it, and instantly combativeness is aroused. Those vaccinators are well advised who discourage projects for the compulsory infiiction of their rite upon adults. The free-bom Englishman may endure the maltreatment of his offspring for their asserted advantage; but to meddle with him in person, willing or unwilling - ^ah I that is a different matter. Mr. Levy set forth with vigour and perspicuity the violation of Liberal prindples involved in the enforcement of vaccination at the dictation of medical men, in ignorancei more or less complete, of the nature and consequences of the observance enforced, and in contempt of the convictions of those they overrule. Dr. Anna Kingsfordi appearing on our platform for the first time, avowed that her   conversion was due to her sense of the immi- nent dangers that, starting from vaccination, threatened to inoculate the community with universal disease. Dr. Collins, in his trenchant manner, exposed afresh the folly of the Pastorians who overlook the better half of their master's teaching. Lastly, Mr. Thomas Baker described the late reduction of vaccination to absurdity at Ampthill, and exposed some of the recent feats of the Registrar-General in statistical cookery. In short, the meeting of May 17 was, in all senses, a good meeting, at which it was pleasant to have been present, pleasant to think of, and pleasant to regard as warrant of better to come. A report, however accurate, can imperfectly convey the spirit of any assembly, but to Mr. Henry Pitman we owe as fair a reflex as it is possible to obtain of the auspicious occasion.   PfiOFESSOB F. W. Newman's letter, addressed to the London Sodety, will be read with the close attention it deserves. For ourselves, we should be glad to take his advice, and to argue the Vaccination Question after the manner of Mr. Levy, in his excellent speech at Neumeyer Hall. The compulsory infliction of vaccination is at variance with the spirit and traditions of English liberty, and establishes a precedent that will justify any tyranny over men's souls or bodies. But in controversy, as in war, we have to follow and fight our enemies where they like, and not where we like. The appeal to liberty-r-to the right of every man to adjust his life to his cir- cumstances as he may see fit, is an appeal that at this day falls on deaf ears. Liberty to exerdse private judgment in matters pronounced immaterial is contemptuously conceded ; but in matters secular, the tendency is more and more to subject the minority to obedience to what the majority happen to think right. Liberty has, therefore, become a vain word. Professor Huxley put the case very neatiy in saying : -  ^I protest that if some^ great Power would agree to make me always think what is true, and do what is right, on condition of being turned into a sort of clock, and wound up every morning before I got out of bed, I would instantly dose with the offer. The only freedom I care aix)ut is the freedom to do right ; the freedom to do wrong I am ready to part with on the f'heapest terms to any one who will take it of me."  In conformity with this view of life, it is widely assumed that the great Power named the State, otherwise the operative majority, may forbid what is considered wrong, and enforce what is considered right, the only limit to such exercise of authority being what is expedient and practicable. Hence the justification of compulsory vaccination; hence the uselessness of appealing to the principles of freedom which the tyrant majority does not recognise as valid ; and hence the necessity that is laid upon us of discussing the character of vaccination, its assumed goodness being taken as sufficient warrant for its enforcement. Mr. Isaac Holden, in canvassing the West Riding of Yorkshire the other day, was asked whether he would vote for the repeal of the Compulsory Vaccination Acts, and replied that his confidence in vaccination had been much increased by the discoveries of Pasteur, and that he could not, therefore, consent to deprive the people of its benefits. When we contrast such a decla- ration with that of Canning : -  "Although I consider the discovery of Vaccination to be of the very greatest importance, yet I cannot imagine any circumstances whatever that would induce me to follow up the most favourable report of its infallibility with any measure for its compulsory infliction.  we perceive the different mental atmosphere into which our generation has passed. If we are to prevail over Mr. Holden, and others like him, we must prove that the popular confidence in vaccination is baseless, and thus involve ourselves in those details and contradictions to which Professor Newman objects. At the same time, we are ever ready to appeal to the ancient faith in liberty, where that appeal is likely to meet with any response.  Thsbb was a notable housewife, who had a reputation for the accuracy with which she kept her accounts. She set down what she received, and what she spent, and the balance in her book always answered to the balance in her pocket. Her husband, exulting in his paragon, took it into his head to look over his wife's accounts, and was struck with the frequent recurrence of "faggots,'' opposite items large and items small. " My dear," said he, '' how is it that we spend so much on firewood ? I see faggots everywhere." "01" said she, " whenever I cannot get my money to   come right, I put down what is short to faggots. That's how I do it." " That's how you do it, is it?" exclaimed the didllusioned man. this anecdote recurs to us when we see the deaths from smallpox in London ranged under the heads of Vaccinated, Unvaccinated, and Not Stated. Dr. Buchanan, in his Memorandum issued last year, observed that in fifty- two weeks of 1880-81 there died in London of smallpox 1,532 persons, of whom " 825 were certified to have been yacdnated, and 687 not to have been vaccinated ; while the fact about vaccination was not stated in the case of 570 of the deaths." As to the assertion of 637 being Unvaccinated, it is needless to repeat oar entire disbelief; and of the 570 Not Stated, we say, Faggots ! Dr. Buchanan innocently suggests that ''Not Stated" represents the kindly solicitude of medical men to screen survivors from the painful reflection that their dead perished from lack of vaccination an imputation of sentimentality which medical men are not likely to thank him for. Not Stated, in our opinion, represents death from smallpox which vaccination has failed to prevent, and the fact, being justly considered discreditable to vaccination, is discreetly suppressed. It is better so than Unvaccinated, which is set against cases of severe smallpox, the severity of the disease being taken for proof of the absence of vaccination. That Not Stated signifies shame for the obvious failure of vaccination, we have a remarkable instance in the case of Sister Clara, Miss Lumley, nurse at Guy's Hospital, who died of smallpox on March 19. Dr. W. B. Carpenter has recently assured us that all hospital nurses are re-vaccinated, and that none of them ever contract smallpox, and still less die of it. Sister Clara, therefore, must have been vaccinated and re-vaccinated, but, sad to say, took  smallpox , and died; a fact, we fear, that will not shake the ''fixed idea" in Dr. Car- penter's mind. To come to our point, however. Referring to the Registrar-General's Weekly Heturtij No. 13, April 1, what do we find concerning Sister Clara's death? Why, these words : -  " The medical certificate relating to the death of a hospital sister in Guy's Hospital from  smallpox  contained no information as to vaccination."  Vaccinated and re-vaccinated, yet ^ no infor mation as to vaccination I " That's how it's done I That is how the faggot trick is worked ! That is how the class of Not Stated is made up.   M. Pastsub, in taking the vacant seat of M. Littr^, in the Academy, was received by M. Benan,   TttE VACCINATION INQUIRER.   35   who said of himself, " In politics and philosophy I always am, when I find myself face to face with one who has decided yiews, of the opinion of my interlocator." It was natural, therefore, for M. Kenan to rate M. Pasteur's discoveries at their highest current value, the greatest of which he descrihed to be ^ that all the essential principles of life are dl^sy metric and ferment, whereas the symetric elements do not ferment ; " and '^ that he had made vaccination, hitherto a theory scarcely developed, a great principle, and had inserted a stone of great price in the eternal edifice of Truth." The symetric and dissymetric discovery we leave to those who can appreciate it, and would only observe that M. Pasteur's conversion of  vaccination from an undeveloped theory into a great principle is a claim that vrill hardly bear investigation. Vaccination was not long in vogue when attempts were made to extend the method to other diseases. Sir Humphry Davy argued that hydrophobia might be dealt vrith like  smallpox  ; and others, that measles and scarlatina might be frustrated in like fashion ; but the experiments made did not encourage repetition. It may be said that these attempts were speculative and abortive, whilst M. Pasteur's are verified and established ; but that is to assert predsely what we dispute. His inoculations have by no means conformed to the expectations excited, and none who know the gulf which exists between the laboratory of the man of science and the practice of common life, feel surprise when '' discoveries " with far better show of reason than M. Pasteur's come to naught.  Db" H. a. Mabtin, of Boston, the champion  trader in ^ bovine virus," has an article entitied  <' Anti-Vaccinism," in the April number of the  North American Review, Martin is the man who  appeared at the meeting of the British Medical  Assodation at Ryde, last year, and related how  he vnrought miracles in the United States after  this manner : -  ^ I am called upon at times, at the very shortest notice, to vaccinate whole cities ; and when I left America, I had just completed the vaccination of the City of New Haven. The custom is to send for me, or my son, whenever smallpox breaks out, with orders at once to vaccinate the entire population of the city, town, or neighbourhood. It is done immediately ; the result beinff that an epidemic is completely stopped in a weeK."  Martin's article is the production of an irate storekeeper, and nothing more. The literature of vacDr ation supplies him with a profusion of epithets wherewith to characterise unbelievers, and littie art is requisite to string them together. He is enraged over our exposure of the cowpox Imposture, and' we are glad to perceive that he is wounded with its truth. He knows that we understand the quackery, and he knows that we know that he understands it himself. He is no sinner for want of light. The cowpox in which he traffics was pronounced impotent against  smallpox  by Jenner himself, one of the notes of its impotence being that it produced no erysipelas. Yet this very note of impotence Martin proclaims as the merit of his cowpox - his bovine virus ! He sells a virus that is not virulent - that is harmless to everything save smallpox, of which it is the ruthless and infallible exterminator ! Well, if a man is resolved to seek his fortune in popular ignorance and credulity, it stands to reason that he should dispense with scruples, and act without hesitation or qualification. The innu- merable company of fools love a man who gives them absolute assurance. Such was the secret of Cagliostro, and of many other successful impostors. Of course, disillusionment may ensue. Some day it is probable that Martin's bovine virus will be recognised for what it is, but the future may be left to answer for itself. When discovery is made, the desires of the vendor may have been satiated, or he may have passed elsewhere. His motto is Dum viuimusy vivarmu.   The second reading of Mr. P. A. Taylor's Bill for the repeal of the compulsory clauses of the Vaccination Acts is fixed for Wednesday, June 21 ; and we entreat our friends to exercise whatever infiuence they possess in drawing the attention of Members of Parliament, by letter or personally, to the occasion, and ensuring their votes for repeal. Those who have charge of Petitions will oblige by forwarding them to Mr. William Young, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster, not later than the 14th inst.   Admitted Failure of Vaccination in 1817. - In the London Medical Repository for July, 1817, edited by G. M. Burrows, M.D., and A. Todd Thomson, M.B.C.S., we read, " Variola continues and spreads a devastating contagion. However painful, yet it is a duty we owe to the public and the profession, to apprise them that the number of all ranks suffering under smallpox, who have previously undergone vaccination by the most skilful practitioners, is at present surprisingly great. This subject is so serious, and so deeply involves the dearest interests of humanity, as well as those of the medical character, that we shall not fail in directing our utmost attention to it." - This was written in Jenner' s lifetime - he did not die until 1828; and the editors of the Medical Repository were ardent advocates of vaccination ! ANNUAL MEEHNG OF THE LONDON SOCIETY FOR THE ABOUTION OF COMPL'LSORY VACCINATION.  On Wednesdny eremngf Maj 17, the Annnul Meeting of the London Society for the Aholition of Compakonr Vaccination was held in Neameyer Halli Bloomabnry, under the presiden<^ of C. H. Hopwood, Q.C., £")., M.P. The hall was filled witn an enthnsiaetic audience, some of whom had come from distant parte of the country. Among those present we ohserred Mr. R. Bkcm, Liyerpool ; Mr. Thomas Baker, Wokingham ; Dr. Crick, Bedford ; Rev. H. J. Allen, Brighton; Mr. W. T. Martin, Lewes; Mr. P. Luck, EBstbonme ; Mr. W. Thurlow, Sudbury ; Mr. H. Pitman, Man- chester ; Mr. James Weston, Sheffield ; Mr. G. Vemey, Richmond ; Mr. Z. Spear, Philadelphia ; Mr. Amos Booth, Leicester ; Madame Venturi ; Mrs. F. Hoggan, M.D. ; Mrs. Anna Eingsford, M.D. ; Colonel J. M. Earle ; Mr. F. Perigal ; Mr. Corrie Grant; Mr. John Morison; Mr. T. H. Moore ; Mr. Cornelius Pearson ; Rey. Dr. Seddon; Mr. Huckle, Bedford ; Mr. W. Parkin, Doncaster ; Dr. F. J. Campbell; Mr. and Mrs. Beurle; Miss E. E. Rees ; Mrs. L. Lowe ; Mr. and Mrs. Godbe, Salt Lake City ; Mrs. Vincent ; Miss Lister ; Mrs. and Miss Haryey ; Mr. G. Tompsitt ; Mr. Edward Maitland ; Mr. w m. Tebb ; Mr. J. Homan ; Mr. R. Morlev ; Dr. Robert Jones, Earlswood, &c, &c. The speaking was excellent, and the only regret felt was from the absence of Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P.  The SscBBTABT (Mr. Wm. Young) said that interesting letters had been received from friends at home and abroad who were unable to be present. He gave an epitome of their purport, and described them as very encouraging. The more important appear at the close of this Report.  Mb. C. H. Hofwood, Q.C, M.P.,  The Chairman said :- I am going to follow the simple process b^ which an ordinary person may convert himself to the view that the existing law of compulsory  vaccination  is insupportable by evidence eitner of a scientific basis or of benefit to the community. My own process of conversion was this: - I saw men suffering for their opinions. I found men earnest and steadfast in tneir opinions, notwith- standing the martyrdom to which they were being subjected. I inquired what this meant. I was tola that there was a compulsory law by which, if a man did not cause his child to be vaccinated, he was liable himself to penalties, and failing to pay those penalties, to imprisonment. Mj ud, as a Member of Parliament, was repeatedly invoked by some of these poor men ; and, to my astonishment, I found that justices in various parts of the country were capable of sending men to prison time niter time because they refused to have their children vaccinated, to many of these cases the father of the child pleaded his cause before his judges by sajin^, '* My wife and I lost a child from vaccination, and we determined we would never have another vaccinated.*' " But," said the magistrate, " it is the law ; you must obey the law.** The men were lectured and ruthlessly sent to prison. Now, I cculd see that   there was a strong veic of conscientious feeling that iodooed a man to stand this martyrdom, and I began to inquire. I was brought up with the strictest faith in vaodnatioiiy and believed in all the blesBipgs that have been as often described. I no longer believe so. I bdieve t)iat  vaccination  is, and always has been, prodnctiye of great mischief. I arraign the medical profession if they do not stop this mischief. I am against compelling men to do what they conscientiously recoil mm. Those who like it have uncontrolled power over their own children, and I am not the one to interfere vrith parental care, even though it expresses itself sometimes in a manner not conformable to good sense. Well, then, I want first to remove this compulsory law. Its removal is an act of justioe demanded of the legislature.  Qbigin of the Exxbting Law. - This law, I may renund you, was tightened up to its present point on the presumptuous interference of the House of Lords by a majority of one in a house of sixteen. So that one man in the Lords overruled the unanimous o|nnion of the Committee of the House of Commons, as well as the judgment expressed in that House before it went to the Lords. A solemn promise was made that this should be remedied next session. In the meantime, the Ministry who made the promise went out of power, and you know that all through the last Parliament we pleaded in vain. When this Parliament came into power, an effort was made to redeem the pledge, but in obedience to the medical conclave behind the Local Government Board, the promise was nullified, the Bill was dropped, and has not been proceeded with. I regret that it was an act of the Liberal Government, but it must be remembered that if you wait for the Tories to fight against this oppressive law, you will find even fewer to do so. That is a short history of the compulsory clause, and against tiiat Mr. Taylor's Bill is directed, upon which I hope we shall have a telling discussion. I shall say as pointedly as I can in the House of Commons what I have once or twice before endeavoured to say, but on each occaaon, I trust, with increasing force, and with the support of a larger number of my countrymen.  Medical Despotism. - ^There is an extraordinary demand made by the medical profession in this and other matters that pertain to the prevention or cure of disease - that we are to give ourselves over absolutely to them as a body. We are not to question the sense or judgment which prescribes our treatment; and that if we be rebellious, they are to be entitled to ask at the hands of the legislature an enforcing Act of Parliament to reduce us to submission. I forewarn everybody against this increase of arrogance on the part of the medical profession. It must be kept within proper bounos. The science of medicme is a most noUe one, and there are many who practise it, and are students of it, who are as noble as the science, and as full of benefit to mankind by their useful laboure ; but as a body insisting in its corporate capacity upon the surrender of our health, our liberty, and our conscience into their hands, we protest against its action. You will remember some of its past mistakes. To terrorise us into submission on this   THE V vaccination  INQiD^IRER.   37   subject of smallpox, it constantly refers to the enormous ravages made by this disease in the last century. Why, they devised a special means as a preventive of the disease which was a most fertile source of its propagation, viz., inoculation I Bid not medical men adopt it and swear by it? They did not go the length of an Act of Parliament, for such things had not yet been thought of as enforcing modes of medical treatment, but I am sure they would have done so if it had been pointed out as possible.  PsACTiCB OF Inoculation. - For nearly a century the medical profession preached the prophylactic virtue of iDOculation. Men of narrow obseryation, they thought that persons who once had 8mall-])ox would be less likely to have it a>gainy forgetting that in the endeavour to minimise the chance, they were propagating this foul disease so as to make it a constant epidemic. My medical friends, what do you say to this? Does it not teach you the folly of relying upon any special nostrum or panacea, and making it incumbent upon the population by lawP Lower your crests a little; be humbled in your judgment, and think whether you are not making exactly the same mbtake now. Your conduct may not be so paljpably wron|^, but it may be producing mischief quite as detrimental to the wnole population.  Introduction of Vaccination. - Well, then began vaccination. The story has been often told how it was recommended and accepted as being something easier and gentler than inoculation, and not followed by such bad effects. The community had faith in  vaccination , and they adopted it. smallpox beiDg no longer propagated by artificial means, it decreased in intensity, when lo and behold, the medical profession attributed the decrease entirely to  vaccination  I Scientific error number two. These are the " blind leaders of the blind." These are the men who insist that we shall bow down to their all-superior wisdom in these matters, and treat what they say as gospel. Grant that smallpox decreased considerably after the introduction of, but not in consequence of,  vaccination  ; and if they had let it alone, it would probably have decreased a great deal more. Medical men set up this unscientific, filthy practice of taking matter from a sore and putting it into the pure blood of human beings, and they look upon that as a sort of fetish that shall be for all time a protection against smallpox. You know that the high priest of vaccination declared that it would be so ; and for a time we were told that it was a certain and perfect preventive. A few years rolled on, and it began to be found out that it was not a certain preventive ; and there has been time after time a shifting of the ground on the part of these guides whose judgment was declarecL to be irrefragable, and new modes of the remedy have had to be invented.   applying First, it   'irst, it was admitted; ^0 yes, Jenner was a little too sanguine about its effects lasting for life.'' But even that was not conceded for a considerable time. Then they said, '' You should do it again about the time of attaining manhood or womanhood." The practice is profitaole, especially if you can get a foolish and misled population to take it every few years. I must do them the justice   of saying that some of them seem to believe in it. There is one distinguished medical man who has, I think, vaccinated himself twelve times. This is what they call believing in it ! They belieye in it so much that they apply it time after time, thus showing their doubt of the effectiveness of the remedy. There is now something like dissension in the vaccination school. It has become a question whether the horrible matter which Dr. Jenner first put into the veins of human beings has not assumed, through transmission from arm to arm, other diseases ; and to this we have had the dreadful horror added of experiments to inoculate animals with smallpox, and then put the resulting matter into the veins of human oeings, passing it off as genuine cowpox, when it produces sometimes mitigated and sometimes intense  smallpox , and leading to mischief which no one can estimate. The men who do the mischief do not follow it and report upon it. Each case is not noted from day to day, and the results made bare to the pulilic. The victim is carried to the grave, and no one knows the cause of the funeral. These are the follies and mischiefs of medicine. There have been as many nostrums 'and follies amongst the medical profession as there have been men of eminence to advocate them.  PocE-MABKED Facbs. another way they have of proving that vaccination is beneficial is that there are fewer faces marked by  smallpox  now than there were formerly. In the first place, people are very likely to be mistaken about the number of times they have seen a thing ; they magnify or diminish it according to their will and pleasure. But there is one excellent reason why there should be fewer marked faces. In those times, medical men treated their  smallpox  patients in the most preposterous way. . In their anxiety to guard them from what they sup- posed the danger of draught, they shut them up in rooms of fever heat, denied them fresh air, and so ill-treated them that they produced upon the faces and bodies of their unfortunate patients the most virulent forms of this disease. But it is no use to plead all this to any man who has made up his mind that the thing is of benefit. Well, I say, let him enjoy it himself. Let him mark himself until he is tatooed like a South Sea Islander. I have no objection; but do not let him force the beastly nostrum upon others. It is to protest against that practice of compulsion being continued that I am here to-night.  The New Calf Lymph. - There is, finally, the battle about the '^calf lymph." You find that these great professors are disagreeing ing amongst themselves. For a long time my friend Dr. Cameron has been fighting the battle for calf lymph. He is an unbeliever in the arm-to-arm system, and advocates what may be called the calf-to^alf system. I am very glad he is an unbeliever so far. It is an advantage to have someone to open the door of the citadel to us from within. He has at last beaten the Local Government Board - those gentlemen who lie concealed behind these eminent doctors, of whom Dr. Buchanan is the type, about whom a word presently. The State doctors followed in the steps of Dr. Seaton, who objected to calf lymph, being persuaded it was more inflammatory, and that there were great objections to it. But, lo   38   THE VACCINATION INQUIKER   And behold ! the Local Government Board have surrendered, and said: "You may have calf lymph. We have made arrangements for your having this, which a former head of our body said was a dangerous remedy ; but we are ready to oblige you in order to keep up compulsory vaccination. Though we think it is likely to be dangerous, yet we are bound not to destroy the gains of the profession or disturb a very valuable practice, which has been so happily begun and so freely continued."  Vaccination Tested by Statistics. - Now, ladies and gentlemen, I want to test this by one or two figures, and I take them from a source which I think vnll ba admitted. What has been the state of things since vaccination was made, first, obligatory, and then compulsory? Vaccination was at first held out as a favour to the public, of which they gradually availed themselves. I may remind you that they were obliged to put an end by Act of Parliament to inoculation about the year 1840. Well, it was promised that vaccination would free us from tnis disease. What has been the result? Vaccination was adopted pretty gene- rally from 1853 to 1860, and there were 7,160 deaths in that time from smallpox in London. From 1861 to 1870, when vaccination was more obligatory, the deaths were 8,347 ; and from 1871 to 1880, 15,540 died. Of course, there was some increase of population, and we do not attribute the increased mortality entirely to vaccination, though it does induce a smallpoxy condition of the population. But I do not rely upon that at this moment, but what I say is that the increase of deaths by smallpox from 7,000 to 15,000 was coincident with the obligatory vaccination of the people of London. I will now give you the figures for England and Wales. In the ten years from 1854 to 1863, during which vaccination was partly compulsory, 33,000 persons died of  smallpox . It was made obligatory and enforced more stringently from 1864 to 1873, and in those years 70,000 people in England and Wales died of  smallpox , notwithstanding vaccination. Would you not say that this is pretty strong evidence that vaccination has done but Uttle to fulfil the mag- nificent promises that were made for it?  Diseases Communicated by Vaccination. - Well, then, is there any other vital objection to vaccination ? I will assume it is not possible to prove either its perfect benefit or its perfect failure. I will turn to another point upon which there can be no doubt, and that is its power of mischief. Here, again, our medical friends, to whom we look as our guides, have misled us. For a long period they protested that disease, and disease of a particularly painful and disgusting sort, could not be conveyed by the point of the vaccinating lancet. They protested to that effect for a considerable time. At last the damaging fact was proved (and they admitted it) that disease had been communicated from arm to arm through the population. Then they said, "O yes ; but then that was because we neglected to secure pure vaccine matter." You intolerable persons who claim to govern the world of medi- cine, how can you for shame admit that you have been so wanting in your duty as to enforce by Act of Parliament, by fine and imprisonment, a   state of things in which you have not taken the commonest care to secure health in the matter which you impose upon those who would not otherwise receive it! That, at least, was admitted by great authorities here and abroad ; and I think you will find it was admitted abroad a considerable time before it was admitted by medical men here. I think it will be found that in the replies made to Mr. Simon, the late head of the Board of Health, the transferrence of that filthy disease was reported to have been made in Italy, Bavaria, and other countries. Well, now, if vaccination can convey that disease, may it not convey other diseases ? Why should one disease be peculiarly fitted for transmission from one child or adult to another ?  Increase of Infant Mortality. - ^We know that erysipelas is frequently caused by vaccination - in fact, Dr. Jenner pronounced it to be its necessary sequence. Imagine the effect of erysipelas upon the bodies of tender infants I In answer to a question of mine in the House of Commons, it was admitted that these infatuated persons had vaccinated children in the workhouse Defore they were a week old, and without the consent of the mothers. It was said that they had not objected ; but they had never been asked. Well, erysipelas will cause death, and has caused it repeatedly; but the cause (vaccination) is always hushed up at the inquest. The death is ascribed to erysipelas, which was not imputable to vaccination ; it only '' followed it.'' It followed it as effect follows its cause. There is a monstrous state of dishonesty on the part of those who sup- port the existing law, by endeavouring to bam- boozle the population in regard to the effects of vaccination. It is a remarkable fact that there has been a very considerable increase in the mortality amongst children during the last forty years. The death-rate per million has risen alarmingly. What is the cause of this? We know that we have been expending huge sums all over the country to clear away all that is foul and nasty, in the endeavour to produce a bene- ficial effect upon the health of the community. Notwithstanding these sanitary efforts, infant mortality has increased from several diseases which are as much inoculable as the filthy disease I have already mentioned. That this dangerous agency is at work is shown by the offidal returns. These figures cannot lie ; they are given to us by our opponents, for I think we may call the Regis- trar-General in some sense an opponent These figures tell their own tale. I will not trouble you with them, but I can produce them if challenged. The returns relate to such diseases as pysemia, or blood-poisoning, skin disease, and scrofula. And we now learn that consumption, as we all thought, is inoculable, if you happen to come upon those creatures which the researches of Dr. Koch have lately revealed to the medical world. At all events, the matter is sufficiently open to doubt to justify any parent who does not agree with these vaccinating doctors, saying, " I will not run the risk of poisoning the blood of my child with that which is capable of producing these diseases."  Re-vaccinated M.P.'s. - I think I should add a little experience of the effects of vaccination, or re-vaccination, which I have learned   .   39   a member of Parliament On one of the nights when the Vaccination Penalties Bill was discussed, a friend of mine, a middle-aged member of the House, came to me after the debate, and gave me his experience. He said, " About a year ago my medical man came to me, and said, 'You havnt been vaccinated lately, hare youP' I said, 'No, why should I beP' ' Well,' he siud, ' I should advise you to be. smallpox has appeared in the neighbourhood, and it would be a very prudent precaution to take.' ' 1 said I didn't want to be vaccinated.' He said, 'I assure ^ou I have the best subject in the world to vaccmate you from ; it is a beautiful child, the very picture of health. I know all about its constitution and that of its parents, and I would advise you not to let this opportu- nity slip." " Well,^' sud my friend, " I yielded my arm to the tyrant, and this matter was put into it, and in about a fortnight I broke out all over. I had such an attack as I was ashamed of. I never had the like of it or cauee for it in my life. I remained under the treatment of my medical man for nearly a month, and then he said to me, ' As you do not make much progress, I think you had better go to Harrogate.' That is what they always say when they can do nothing more for you. I went to Harrogate, and was treated by another doctor, to whom I told the story of what had happened to me, and he said, ' Oh, there is no doubt you have been vaccinated with impure lymph ! ' " What a satisfaction I Here was a man who, with all the safeguards of wealth and the highest medical advice, was not protected against impure lymph. Then imagine how little safe- guard there must be for those who are low down in the scale of society, and how provoking must be the answer given to their remonstrance when they have been thus badly used - ** Pooh ! pooh ! it has nothing to do with vaccination. You belonff to that infatuated lot, the anti-vaccinators. ' Well, another instance was that of a rather older man, who came to me the same night and said, ** I should like to give you my experience." It was this. He said : '' I was pressed very much to be vaccinated again, and I was, and within a month it was followed by constitutional disturbance and swellings such as I never had before. I thought myself a thoroughly healthy man, and had enjoyed health all my life down to the time of this vaccination." Now, here you have two striking examples of the evil effects of vaccination. The names I keep back ; but I can give them if required to substantiate what I have said.  Stamfbb-out smallPox. - Well, then it was boasted that vaccinaticn had stamped out  smallpox  in Scotiand and Ireland. A distinguished col- league of mine in the House of Commons, Dr. Play- fair, uttered this extravagant boast. With a flourish that seemed to make his littie form bigger, he said, '' It can be proved to demonstration, and beyond the shadow of a doubt, that by vaccination you can stamp out smallpox. They have done it m Scot- land, that pattern of good sense and legality, and they have aone it in Ireland." I would add, that pattern of a country with no laws. And yet in a short time, as you all know, great numbers died in both countries from smallpox ; an epidemic   devastating some of the large towns, and raising the death-rate far above that of London.  Fallacibs Die Habd. - Well, I am getting v^ry near the end of what I wished to say, and I am sorry I have taken up so much time, when you have so many speakers better competent to deal with it. I wanted to enforce some of those incontestable points which all can remember and carry away. Most of those present will be well supplied with scientific reasons against vaccination, but others may not be familiar with the A B C of the subject, and therefore it is necessary to rej^at our ar^^uments and facts again and again, for it is astonishing how often statements need repeating before they become fixed on the mind. On the other hand, faUades die hard - Dr. Buchanan's, for instance, which have been effectually answered, particularly by our. friend Mr. P. A. Taylor, wnose absence tonight he asked me to excuse to you, partiy on account of his health, and asked me to say now heartily he supports this cause, and that he was ready to defend it, as he has often done, and carrythe war into the enemy's camp, either in the House of Commons, at public meetings, or in the pages of the public magazines.  Who abb the Unvaocinatkd ? - Well, Dr. Buchanan said that the unvaccinated lived under the same conditions as the vaccinated. That was a monstrous and daring statement. I do not think he meant to deceive, but I think he was so ignorant of the matter that he had no right to attempt to instruct people about it. In the first place, the law allows three months before children need be vaccinated, consequentiy a large number of children under that age are not vaccinated, while their chances of living during that delicate period are less than at any other period of life, because they are more susceptible to unfavourable influences. But, fur- ther, there is the large class of sickly children, who are exempted from vaccination because, in the opinion of the doctors, ruthless as they are, they are not in a fit state to bear the operation. Then there are the children of tramps and the shifting population, who move from place to place, and live under the filthiest conditions, and are, therefore, most likely to have smallpox in its most dangerous form. Yet Dr. Buchanan says that the unvaccinated and the vaccinated live under exactiy the same conditions; and having established to his own satisfaction the same death- rate for both classes, he deduces a result entirely in favour of vaccination. Again: the '^mark" theory has been often and thoroughly exposed - I mean the decision medical men in smallpox hospitals have come to as to what patients have been vaccinated. The fact is, they settib everything in their own favour, and they have some reason to do so. I do not make imputations upon any individual, but I do say that, as a class, tney are under great temptation to maintain a State endowment which has yielded to the medical profession £1,700,000 in a few years, and that causes a golden shower whenever there is a  smallpox  panic, followed by a rush on the part of those who place value in this particular panacea, on the recommendation of men who constitute themselves the sole judges of its efficacy, and who are intemperate and illogical in its defence. OuB Pbotkst. - We are here to protest against the legal enforcement of this hlood-poisoning system. We hold to the opinion expressed by the celebrated John Hunter, in words of unanswerable common sense, when writing of this very remedy : *^ Any extraneous substance introduced into the blood modifies the yitalised or living fluid. The introduction by inoculation of mineral or vegetable poison is hazardous, and, in certain cases, may be destructive ; but the introduction of animal products from another living body, be it a man, a cow, or even an ass, is infinitely more pernicious, because allied to it in being vitalised." We can understand from the wonderful cir- culation of the blood - coursing, as it does, every minute through the entire human body - how speedily this poisonous matter must impregnate the whole system. But who can tell by what medicine that foul poison can be eradi- cated? We charge those who adopt this sup- posed remedy, and fight hard for it, with a fearful responsibility in advocating the infliction upon every person of such a dangerous and doubtful prescription as vaccination, with all its attendant evils, when the chances are few that smallpox will assail an individual in his passage through life.  Mb. William Tebb.  Mr. William Tebb, on being called upon by the Chairman, said: - I have listened with unspeakable satisfaction to the able and interesting speech of our Chairman, on the important question which has called us together this evening. He has presented the whole case against  vaccination - social, statistical, and medical - furnishing valuable experiences within his own knowledge, and if he is as outspoken in the House of Commons as he has been here tonight (and I am sure he will be), his attack upon compulsory  vaccination will have a powerful effect upon public opinion, and do much to aid the object this Asso- ciation has in view. Mr. Hopwood has cited some examples of the common experiences of the vaccination tyranny. It will be my duty to present to you some illustrations of cases that, if not so common, are extremely grievous and oppressive, and also to briefly allude to the progress of our movement, which you will, I think, consider to be not without encouragement for the future.  Pebsecution of the Poob. - You are all familiar with the ordinary methods in which the Vaccination Acts are carried out; of the notices served by Boards of Guardians; of the dragooning of mothers to the vaccination station, under threats of summonses ; of the inquisitorial visitation of house to house' and school to school ; of the appearance of the resolute anti- vaccinators at the police-court, and the way in which they are treated by the magistrates, being seldom allowed to justify themselves or make any defence, their medical witnesses rarely permitted to give the evidence which is so important to the fair presentation of their case, and generally (in the Metropolitan police-courts, at least), mulcted in the highest penalties known to the law. During the great anti-f"lavery conflict in America, it was said by Chief Justice Tanev, in the cele- brated decision known as the Dred f?cot case, that ^ the black man had no rights which the white   man was bound to respect " ; and having regard to the way in which the honest and courageoas men who oppose this cruel and iniquitous law are treated, I tmnk we may say that anti-vaccinators in England now have no rights which the courts and magistrates and the Press feel themselves bound to respect. Is it any wonder there should have sprung up a determined resistance to this law, and that day by day this resistance should be increasing in force and volume? And if we fail not in our duty, I believe that at no distant day an enlightened public opinion will compel the repeal of these abominable Acts. I wish, how- ever, to call your attention to some particular cases of injustice, and which are the more deserving of our notice, because they. are seldom alluded to, while the sufferers have rarely the opportunity, owing to peculiar circumstances, of making complaint of the injustice done to them. A starving mother goes to the workhouse to give birth to a child, which when born under such circumstances is usually endowed with but feeble vitality; but though the vital thread of the child is weak, the maternal instincts of the mother are strong, and she tries to preserve the health of her child. In the midst of her efforts, the State vaccinating doctor, with the authority of the Local Government Board,* comes with his poisoned lancet and performs an operation which always creates an illness, and which, in a case like this, is a positive danger. I was present in the House of Commons in 1878, when Mr. Pease, the Member for South Durham, with an offlcial document in his hand, entitled, " Vaccination, Mortality," which holding up before Mr. Sclater-Booth, the President of the Local Government Board, said, on the strength of that document, " Vaccination slaughters children wholesale I '' I should like to know what registry will reveal the results of these workhouse vaccinations. It was said by Montaigne, that the medical successes were everywhere known and talked about, but their failures were silent underground. That is where, I fear, would be found the majority of the cases of this Herodian practice. Dr. G. E. Farrow, Public Vaccinator of the Holborn Union, stated in the Ixmcet for April 2, 1881, that he had vaccinated between five and six hundred infants under seven days old, and the medical officer of the Lambeth Infirmary says, in his report, that he is in the habit of vaccinating children twenty-four hours old.  Postmen and Policemen. - A young man seeks a situation in the Post-office. lie furnishes evidence of an irreproachable character, is in  I>os8ession of excellent health, passes the preliminary examination with credit, and is in all respects qualified for the post. But the medical officer taps him on the shoulder and tells him that, before he is accepted, he must be vaccinated. I hold in my hand a letter from the General Post-office relating to this requirement. It says : -  General Post Office, London, April 27, 1882. Sib, - I beg leave to inform you that candidates for appointment to the Post-office who have not had the smallpox within seven years, or who have  * See circular to the Clerk to the GuArdians^ dated Jan. 87, 1881.   .   41   not been satisfaotorilj yaooinated within that period, are required to be vaccinated.  (Signed) H. JoTCS.  If the candidate with all these qualifications refuses to comply with this medical pre-requisite, the Qoveniment rejects his application and accepts a more compliant candidate.  A situation is required in the police force, and the same ordeal must be passed through. Police officers are not only required to be -vaccinated when they enter the force, but they are compelled to M revaccinated during times of epidemic. This is a letter from Colonel HeDderson, dated Whitehall-place, May 1, 18S2, in which he says: -  Sib, - With reference to your letter of 24th ult. I have to acquaint you that by direction of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, all men who join the Metropolitan Police Force are vaccinated prior to their admission.  I have heard of policemen who said they had been vaccinated six or seven times, and then had the smallpox after all. So much for the protection afforded.  I have taken the precaution, as you see, to fortify myself with omcial documents, as, without them, such examples of injustice could scarcely be credited.  It is frequently said that anti-vaccinators are given to exaggeration and the use of violent terms, but I maintain that no language can well be too strong to express the wickedness and cruelty of this law. The head of the metropolitan police - as reported in one of the newspapers some time ago- issued an order that all the officers and constables connected with that force should be immediately vaccinated by the divisional surgeons and in case any individual declined to comply, it was; stated he would be at once called upon to resign. The letter I have just read from Colonel Henderson quoted the Home Secretary as the instigator of this medical test. I must confess my surprise that Sir William Harcourt should have issued an order of that kind. He must have known better, for when he met his constituents at Derby last year, a deputation of anti-vaccinators waited upon him, and, in reply to their representations, is reported to have made use of these words : - " If it can be shown that vaccination does not diminish smallpox, compulsion cannot be justified.'' [Of course it can be shown. Sir William Harcouit should study the returns of the Registrar- General.] " As to other diseases being conveyed by the vaccine, it is very probable that such is the case, even when great care is taken, but it is a question of the balance of advantages." Now, as Sir William Harcourt admits the danger, then surely he ought to ask the police officers if they are willing to incur the risk, and not compel it, nolens volens. If policemen do their duty in protecting our lives and propertjr, it ought certainly to be sufficient, without subjecting them to the dangers of this disgusting operation.  Boys in Public Schools. - A parent desires to send his bo^ to a public school - 1 care not which of them it may be, whether Eton, Harrow, Rugby, Winchester, or Marlborough - their regu-   lations in bhis regard are, I am informed, pretty much the same. Here is a letter recentiy received from one of the masters at Rugby : -  Sir, - I beg to enclose a prospectus of the school, and to add that boys are vaccinated soon after entrance, unless they have been vaccinated within a comparatively recent period. - G. Elskb.  When the parent receives the first school-bill, he finds therein a charge of 10s. 6d. for vaccination. I maintain that to attack a healthy boy without the consent of his parents, and charge 10s. 6d. for the operation, is a robbery and ^oss outrage upon parental rights ; and beyond this, it is a piece of almost unparalleled impertinence. Let it be remembered that the vaccination of a thousand boys at Rugby at lOs. 6d. each means 600 gumeas to the medical exchequer. I have never charged the medical profession with advocating vaccination from mercenary motives; but will any reasonable person say that when a medical man advises the vaccination of a thousand boys, at a gain of 600 guineas, that he is free from pecuniary bias.^ To suppose so would be to aver that medical men were more than human. Mr. Herbert Spencer tells us that all facts are distorted by the medium through which they reach us ; and the medical profession can claim no immunity from bias amidst such temptations. Recommendations for wholesale vaccination so liberally rewarded should be taken not with a grain, but with a whole bushel of salt.  Model Lodginq Houses. - This  vaccination tyranny goes even a step further. It attacks us at the very threshold of our abodes. A workman desires a home in a healthy and central part of the metropolis, near to his place of em- ployment ; and wnere is he likely to find such a home more eligible than in the improved metro-  Slitan dwellings built for the working classes? e accordingly goes to the Peabody luuildings. A list comprising fifteen rules is presented to him. This is a copy given to me by the secretary. The first of these fifteen rules is : -  No [^application for rooms will be entertained unless every member of the applicant's family has been vaccinated, or agrees to comply with the Vaccination Act, and further agrees to have any case of infectious disease removed to the proper hospital.  Thus you see that the medical requisition has precedence of cleanliness, of sobriety, of punctu- ality in the payment of rent, of good references, in fact, of all the cardinal virtues.  I visited one of these tenement dwellings a few days ago (not the Peabody Buildings), built for artisans, in company with a gentieman I see here to-night, and made inquiry as to vaccination. A mother went into her room, brought out a puny, sickly little child, and said, "That child has been ruined by vaccination.'' Its arm, she said, was swollen by the poison to two or three times its ordinary size, and when the inflammation subsided, the use of the arm was destroyed, its sight was apparentljr gone, and it presented a miserable object for pity. I have frequently met with parents who told me that their children who were radiant with health had been poisoned by vaccination, as though bitten   42      by a yeoomoas reptile. The liberal benefactor, the late George Peabodj, out of whose bounty these dwellings for the respectable poor were erected, would no more have thought of prescribing such a medical pre-re^uisite as yaocination, than he would of requiring the tenants to subscribe to the Athanasian Creed or the Thirty- nine Articles. Despite the intolerable evils fol- lowing the Jennerian rite, we shall never get rid of compulsion by attacking the medical profession. I will venture to make a practical suggestion. It is this : - Let the proprietors of the leading news- papers send a commissioner amongst the crowded population of this metropolis to take down the simple narrative of the poor mothers whose children have been injured or destroyed by Taccination, and the testimony so recorded would arouse such a feeling of indignation and injustice, that in a short time the whole superstructure of compulsory vaccination would disappear in a storm of public opprobrium.  Soldiers Syphilised. - A man joins the army. You know that in the army,vaccination is remorselessly enforced ; and so well is the serious nature of the operation understood, that, I am informed, by the rules of the service a man is allowed five days' furlough to recover from the effects of the o])eration. But some never do recover. My friend, Mr. Baker, knows of such cases. In December, 1880, fifty-eight young men joined the 4th Regiment of Zouaves, at Algiers; in compliance with the orders of the service, they were vaccinated by the military surgeons, and the whole fifty-eight were infected with the most terrible and dreaded of all diseases. The details were published in Le Petit Colon, an Algerian journal, in [the Paris Journal d'HygUne (for June 80 and Aujj. 26, 1881), edited by Dr. de Pietra Santa, a scientific gentleman, eminent alike for his ability and courage, and a member of several learned societies. The facts were briefly alluded to by the Paris Correspondent of the Daily NetM, and reproduced in the Vaccination Inquibbr for August and October last. So much anxiety was created through the publicity given to this vaccine disaster by these and other journals, that Mr. R. P. Biennerhassett deemed it his duty to bring the matter before the House of Commons last September, and asked Mr. Dodson, the President of the Local Government Board, if the reports were true. Now, you know if the reported facts had been false, with what alacrity and unconcealed delight a denial would have been forthcoming from Mr. Dodson, and announced in the House of Commons, amidst the cheers of the assembled f^enators, and with what eager haste this denial would have been reproduced in the medical journals, and probably followed by an attack upon anti-vaccinators. Mr. Dodson, however, was equal to the emergency, for vaccination must be saved from reproach. He said he had no means of obtaining the information, which could only be got from the French Government. I thereupon wrote to M. Tirard, Minister of Commerce and chief of the Vaccination Department in Paris, and asked if the report of the painful facts was correct, and if the relatives had received compensation for the injury done to these young men. After waiting tome time - no doub^ meanwhile consulting his   colleagues - M. Tirard replied that the matter did not belong to his department, and referred me to the Minister of War. I then wrote to General Billot, the Minister of War, on April 6 last, inclosing copy of the correspondenc e with the Minister of Commerce ; but up to this date no response has been received - nor do I expect any. The case was again brought before the readers of the Journal cCHygiene on March <)0, with further evidence from Algiers conflrming the truth of the previous serious and most damaging facts. The Baron |iarrey has questioned the French Chamber of Deputies, to endeavour to elicit some official acknowledgment ; but both the French Government and the English Government, and the medical journals everywhere, have maintained a profound and unbroken silence. Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that this conspiracy of silence in a matter that so deeply concerns the  Eublic health is nothing less than a crime against umanity ; but it is the silence that precedes the storm, and when our President, Mr. Taylor, Mr, Hopwood, Mr. Samuelson, Mr. Burt, and Sir Wil- frid Lawson, and others supporting the second reading of Mr. Taylor's Bill next month, they will, if I mistake not, expose these and other concealed vaccine tragedies, and the people will wake up with a great surprise to think how they could have submitted to this dangerous medical delu- sion so long. The illustrations I have brought before you will show to what an extent this vacdne tyrannv has become interwoven with our sodal life. We have not only to contend against the enforcement of an artificial disease upon every child born into the world, but also a system of compulsory re-vaccination carried on under circumstances of great hardship and injustice. It ought, therefore, to occasion no astonishment that an association like this (whose anniversary we are here to commemorate this evening) should have arisen to resist and overthrow this most grievous tyranny. The facts I have cited must be my justification for earnestly solidting your active co-operation and support.  Gbowth of cub Cause. - I have the pleasing duty to announce that both at home and abroad we have abundant evidence that this agitation against compulsory vaccination is going forward in a satisfactory and encouraging way. During the past two years the London Society has printed and issued over 8Q0,000 publications. These have been sent to every part of the world* Our President (Mr. P. A. Taylor), with his ac- customed liberality, has not only contributed largely to our funds, but has himself printed 200,000 copies of his admirable letter to Dr. Car- penter in English, and 25,000 copies in French for circulation abroad. Lectures have been given by various friends of the cause, and at some of our conferences we have had the advantage of hearing some of the ablest champions of vaccination, and shall gladly welcome others who will accept our challenge. The vaccination question has during the past year been discussed in nearly all the Debating Sodeties in London, and the subject has invariably induced large attendances and a deep interest, with cot unfre^uent adjournment of the debate. For the first time in the history of our movement, one of the leading reviews - the Nine* teenth Century - has opened its columns te our   .   43   side of the question, and has published Mr. Taylor's reply to Dr. Carpenter. In that reply, Mr. Taylor has shown not only that  vaccination is a failure, but that it was a failure from the beginning. As a failure it must come to ruin; and, if I mistake not, with it not a few distinguished reputations which one would gladly have wished to escape such a fate.  Pbogbbss in Other Cottntbies. - Before closing, I must take a brief survey of the progress of the anti-vaccination cause abroad. In France, the Bill for compulsory vaccination and re-vaccination has been withdrawn, owing to the representations made at the Paris international anti- vaccination conference, and to the discussions in the French Academy of Medicine ; for many of the ablest physicians in France are opposed to compulsory vaccination. On the latter occasion, Dr. Depaul quoted, amidst the applause of the ftj>sembly, a touching and eloquent passage from Dr. Conneau, first physician to Louis Napoleon, which I cannot refrain from reading. It is this: -  England, the Classic land of libertyi which has been nniversally recognised as the model and guide of individnal freedom, now sees the father of a family submitted to the most vexatious of obligations, that of causing his child to undergo an operation which he may believe to be injurious to the health of all that in this world he holds dear. We do not believe it will be possible to inflict such a law upon France.  If, Mr. Chairman, through your influence and that of other members of Parliament, we can obtain an official exposure or recognition of this disaster in Algiers, we hope it will not be possible to pass a vaccination law in France. In Germany, under the leadership of the indefatigable Dr. Oidtmann, the movement goes on more rapidly than in England or any other country. My friend, Herr Zoppritz, of Stuttgardt, who was delegate from Wiirtemburg to the International Anti-Vaccination Congresses at Paris and Cologne, and who, I am sorry to say, is now in prison in his own city for resisting the vaccination tyranny, writes that of the seventeen members sent to the lieichstag from Wiirtemburg, the majority are pledged to vote for the abolition of the vaccination law. There is now a Bill before the Reichstag for the repeal of the Vaccination Acts, and fifteen members have agreed to recommend urgency for that measure. The next International Congress will be held at Berlin, in the centre of the nro-vaccination camp, in August next, and it is oelieved that it will make an end of compulsory vaccination in Germany. Our kinsmen across the Atlantic are at length making headway in the same direction. I am sorry to say that for a long time !they were so apathetic, that they almost seemed to have lost their love of liberty and hatred of oppression ; they allowed themselves to be vaccinated at the instigation of the Boards of Health (so-called) wholesale, like lambs driven to the slaughter, but their resistance is at length aroused. Larg(< public meetings have been held in New York, and meetings of medical societies have been held in Kansas and Connecticut, condemning the practice   unanimously. The New York Tribune, the leading Liberal journal in America, has been constrained to admit that in the controversy which has arisen, the anti-vaccinators have so far had the best of the argument. When I had the pleasure of assisting at the formation of the first American Anti- Vaccination League in New York, in October, 1879, Dr. Alexander Wilder said, '' All that we need in America is a Wm. Lloyd Garrison to lead the agitation.'' Since that time, Dr. Wilder, who is a Professor of Physiology in the United States Medical College, and a man of rare learning and attainments, as well as possessed of great courage and independence, has himself become that leader, and I am sure we shall hear a good account of his earnest disinterested devotion to this work. There remains only one other country that I need mention, and that is Switzerland. In the early part of this year, at the instigation of an active medical propaganda, the Swiss Federal Chambers passed a vaccination law of a most stringent and oppressive character. That law permitted penalties to be imposed for non-vaccination as high as 2,000 francs, or £80, and a year's imprisonment, and the new law was triumphantly set forth as a victory for the Jennerians, and a crushing blow to the work of the recent International Congress, at Cologne. But the victors counted without their host, and their triumph has been of short duration. When framing the Constitution of Switzerland, the people wisely reserved to themselves the right of appeal from the decisions of their Parliament to the suffrages of the people, called a Referendum, Only nine^ days from the date of promulgation of the law on Feb. 14 was allowed, and 30,000 mgnatures must be provided; but the liberty- loving Swiss people were equal to the occasion. I have just received a despatch from Dr. Scheuerman, of Basle, in which he states, " We have not only se(;ured the 30,000 signatures necessary to set aside this monstrous law, but we have obtained an overplus of 49,200 (79,200 in all). The vaccinators find themselves in a Sedan, "and I believe the tyranny is overthrown." Our friendf in Switzerland may, therefore, sing a Jubilate -  Sound the loud timbrel o'er Zurich's blue sea ; The people have triumphed, their children are free  OuB Difficulties and cub Stbenqth. - We maintain that our agitation, instead of being a fanaticism, is entirely reasonable, and commends itself to the common sense and best interests of the people. We contend for liberty, justice, and the public health, a triple alliance that cannot easily be broken. We do not underestimate the difficulties in the way, or the obstacles to be overcome ; it would not be wise to do so. Alas ! our veteran friends. Dr. Collins and Dr. Pearce, Mr. Baker, who is on this platform, Mr. Gibbs, of Darlington, my friend, Mr. Pitman, who is reporting this meeting, and other noble workers in our good cause, know full well what these diffi- culties are. They have had the whole of the Press against them, and nearly the whole of the medical profession, 25,000 strong, who have stood shoulder to shoulder to enforce their medical prescriptions upon the people ; and, worst of all, they have had the apathy of the public to contend ngainst. But   u   .   I am happy to say that there are unmistakable indications that this apathy is dissolving, that the medical ranks are waTering, as we find by many powerful testimonies, inadvertent admissions, and by communications marked ** private/' And what shall I say of the Press? I cannot say much that is favourable, but I believe that the Press is scarcely so virulent and abusive as formerly. But though the opjposition were ten times as strong, and the difEculties ten times as great, yet, relying upon Justice, with its unwithering vitality, we should still go forward unshaken in our determination, and confident in the ultimate and complete triumph of our cause.  Rkv. F. Rowland Young, D.D. Dr. YouNO moved the following Resolution : -  That inaBmnch as 80 years' experience of Yac- cination, and 37 years of Compnlsory Vaccmation, with a longer period of Compulsion in Sweden, Denmark, and some of the German States, have demonstrated its complete failure as a defence against smallpox - Besolved that further Compul- sion is wholly unjustifiable, and that the Yaocination Acts ought to be immediately repealed.  We have been favoured with two luminous and interesting addresses from Our respected Chairman, and our esteemed and irrepressible friend Mr. Tebb,' and I shall therefore confine my remarks to a very small compass. I move the resolution with the full concurrence of my reason and with my whole oonsdence, believing that it expresses the very truth about this matter. If I live to the 22nd of next June, I shall be 67 years of age, but I have not yet been vaccinated. So I belong to the " dangerous classes.'' I have been told that I ought to be vaccinated for the sake of example. Well, the theory of example might be pushed to very illo^cal conclusions. I can only say that I do not mtend to be vaccinated, and that it would fare ill with any one who at- tempted that operation upon me. I have such an utter detestation and loathing of the beastly practice, that I would require more grace than I possess to keep my hands off any n^an who at- tempted to do so dastardly a thing. I am present not alone as a minister of the gospel, and I think I am in my right place in that character, but also as a citizen, to defend the rights of myself and others. I believe in liberty, but I look upon compulsory vaccination as unparalleled and unreasonable tyranny. If any man, in the exercise of his pri- vate judgment, liked to be vaccinated, or to incur the responsibility of having his children vaccinated, I should be prepared to defend his right in the abstract ; but I claim the right to have the lancet kept from off my arm, and the arms of my children, for whom I am responsible. I deny the right of any department of Government to inflict upon us State medicine. It forms no part of the duty of any Government to practise as surgeons or medical men ; and when we know that no proof has been given that vaccination is a preventive of smallpox, the case against the legal enforcement of t^e rite is still stronger. If it could be shown that there is a reasonable and natural connection between vaccination and the prevention of smallpox, and that smallpox has been abated or kept at bay by it, then I should be dis  posed to keep silence on the matter. But these things have never been proved, and they are incapable of proof. No medical man has ever been able to give a scientific reason for  vaccination. Almost anything may be proved from figures. I think it was Geoige Canning who said: ** There is nothing so misleading as figures, excepting facts.** I do not charge bodies of men with deliberately and of set purpose manipulating figures for the purpose of bringing out a foregone conclusion ; but I do say that when men have a theory to support, it is astonishing what slender and fallacious arguments are relied upon ; and when, in addition, there are pecuniary considerations at stake, it b no wonder that men's minds become biassed in a certain direction. I know that medical men resent the pecuniary aigument as an impertinent and cruel insinuation. I give medical men credit for being as honest ns other folk- quite as honest as parsons ; and as the^ are affected by pecuniary considerations, medical men, who are not angelic, must be open to the same influence. Until it can be proved that vaccination is a sure and natural preventive of smallpox, it is not justifiable to lorce it upon the people at large. I therefore advocate the repeal of the Compulsory Yaocina- Hon Acts. If vaccination is a perfect preventive, why are not persons above fourteen years of age operated uponP Is there some particular and mysterious quality in that age? I cannot understand why grown-up persons should be allowed to go allout unvaccinated. When I mention this omission to medical men, they say, ** Well, we don't expect grovni-up people would stand it" I do not think they would. I am not singular in my detestation of the practice of inoculating children with something so filthy and so bad that it cannot be named in an English assemblv. I do not believe in men being paid for killing children according to Act of Parliament. I could relate sad accounts of the evil effects of vaccination which have come under my notice in my pastoral visits. Many a healthy child, as ruddy as a cherry before vaccination, has pined and died after the horrid operation, and the doctors hide their mistake under the daisies of the turf. It is a singular fact that it is the vaccinated who are afraid of smallpox. During thirty-five years' minis- trations, 1 have never shirked a house where there whs a case of smallpox. I have looked upon loathsome cases, but have never suffered in the slightest degree. Many other anti-vaccinators can say the same. No doubt, fright has a good deal to do with catching the disease. In conclusion, I contend that the upholders of  vaccination have not proved their case, and they have no right therefore to claim that their nostrum is a protection. The law operates with peculiar oppressiveness upon the poor, who are unable to pay fines, and consequentiy are sent to prison. I have been a poor law guardian, and know something of the brutal tyranny exercised over unvaccinated paupers. Members of Parliament are not always on the right side, and I therefore rejoice the more that this noble cause of freedom and purity has the able support of such experienced and respected legislators as Mr. Taylor and Mr. Hop- wood.   .   45   Mb. J. HiAH Levy.  Mb. Lbyy, in seconding the resolation/ said I must not be considered to be committed to the preamble. I am as incompetent to speak of the failure of vaccination as of its success. Buty with regard to the resolution itself, it rather falls short of my views, and I would have been glad had the word ^ further " been erased from it. Compulsory vaccination is always and wholly unjustifiable. If vaccination could be proved, to the satisfaction of the effective majority of the nation, to be eiEcacious, that would be no just ground for forcing it on those who are not convinced. In such a case as this the majority have no defensible plea for the coercion of the minority. To do this is to claim for them- selves infallibility . But the hypothesis with which I have started is not satisfied. Very few of the elec- tors of the United Kingdom have examined the question for themselves. They simply accept on faith the dogmas of their medical priesthood. Now, I have no ri^ht to object to a man exercising such fcuth for himself and for his children, but for him to force on others that which he has himself blindly accepted is the sheerest despotism. I object to have a nostrum thrust down m^, or my child's, throat by the aid of the policeman s truncheon, on the plea that other people's doctors think it would do me good. And the nostrum in question is itself a disease - sometimes more than one. Dr. Carpenter's argument, that the disease can be justiy forced on an individual, because, if he had it not (and perhaps if he had it), he might have another disease, and some other persons might catch this disease, is scarcely worthy of refutation. Indeed, the arguments of that eminent man on the whole pubject are more curious than convincing. On the second page of his recent article in the Nineteenth Century ^ he argues against the efficiency or sufficiency of sanitation in this ' way : - '' To maintain that this disease is to be extinguished by any sanitation that is practically possible, shows an enthusiastic credulity that I certainly cannot share, though I fuU^ admit that in the general mitigation of this disease, and in the enormous reduction in its mortality, the improved sanitary condition of our nopulation has nad a large share." Now, mark wnat is admitted here. It is conceded that sanitation has a large share in reducing the mortality from smallpox ; and - for the best of reasons - no attempt is made to estimate this share. What, then, could posubly be the logical value of statistics showing a decfine|in smallpox mortality, as a proof of the efficacy of vaccination? Moreover, Dr. Car- penter did' not say that sanitation would not extinguish smallpox, but that ^* pactically possible " sanitation would not. It is dismissed as practically incompetent to extinguish smallpox, m favour of vaccination. Still, on the first page of the article. Dr. Carpenter says that vaccination has '' very considerable, though by no means absolute, protective power." But was not the argument against trusting to sanitation based on the very ground that its effi- ciency is not absolute ? And these are the authorities whom coercionists follow blindfold! Surely a man who cannot bear in mind an argu-   ment from page to page is a strange person to be entrusted with the power of forcing the multitude into conformity with his views. The more the question is studied, the more astonishing it will appear that Englishmen, who are supposed to love libertv, should argue in favour of such des- potic legislation. The love of liberty has, I fear^ much decreased in this country. My friend. Dr. Drysdale, argues that this is not a question of individual liberty, because no parent has absolute rights over his child. Granted; but have the majority of parents, who do not think on medical matters, the right to dictate to the minori^ the medical treatment of their children? Either this claim holds good for all diseases, or it holds good for none. Nay, more, if it holds good for medicine, it holds good for religion. If mere numbers or power would justify the forcible imposition of a therapeutic creed, they would equally justify the imposition of a theological one, and the Roman Catholic majority in Spain might justiy compel their Protestant neighbours to bring up their children as Roman Catholics. Freedom and parental rights are inextricably bound up together, and the invasion of one is practically an invasion of the other. I warn the people of Enffland that unless they are watchf ol, they will wake some dav and find themselves entangled in the meshes of a tyranny none the more pleasant because it is modern. The doctors them- selves require inoculating - with good old English love of liberty. There is a constant and syste- matised aggression on their part against the liberties of their fellow-citizens. Public and (more recently) private Bills are introduced into Parliament under medical auspices for the pur- pose of takinff away from individuals the care of their own bodies, and from fathers and mothers the care of the bodies of their little ones. The fact is, medical men are, after all, but men, and they are getting demoralised by the absence of outside criticism. Doctors compare badly with parsons in this respect ; the latter feel bound to support their prescriptions by argument of some sort ; but the former write theirs in an unknown tongue, and expect the patient to swallow the prescribed dose on authority. Very often the medical practitioner does not even tell his patient what is the matter with him. It is demoralising to any body of men to exercise their functions in this way; and societies like this will do much good by compelling there to defend the positions taken up by them. But criticism to be effective should De intelligent and fair. Our education ought to fit us for this work. I think some of the time wasted at school on obsolete rubbish might be profitably spent in learning something of pyhsio- logy, so that the people might not only be able to criticise the doctors, out largely to dispense with their services. .  Mbs. Anna Kingsfobd, M.D.  Dr. EzNGSFOBD moved the following Resolution: -  That as no positive evidence exists of the superiority of oalf lymph as a preventive of  smallpox , while its dangers have been conolusively established, its provision by government as an alternative for humanised lymph famishes no justification for continued compulsion.   46      As this resolution has but this moment been put into my hands, I am not, therefore, prepared to speak in respect of its special statements, I prefer to speak to the general principle. This is my first appearance in the camp of the anti-Taccinationists, and I do not think I should have been here had it not been for the recent manifesto issued by Professor Tyndall, founded on the discoveries of Professors Pasteur and Koch, and their followers. On reading that manifesto, the conviction forced itself on my mind that a principle was involved in the question. We have for many years been called upon to vaccinate in order to avert smallpox, and we are now called upon to extend the same "prophylactic'' operation to other unclean disease germs. For twelve years I have been a vegetarian, and have held, and have said to my vegetarian friends : - ** It is not necessary for any vegetarian to be vaccinated." But hitherto I have regarded anti-vaccination as a dangerous doctrine to preach to the masses. Now, however, having seen from the recent exhortations in the various so-called scientific  journals, over what an abyss we are likely to be Lurled if the doctors have their way, it is, I think, time for those who have principle at heart to come forward and avow it. I have used the word " principle." It will illustrate my meaning onjthis point if I refer to a practice common in some parts of the East. Most of the low-caste serving-men in such parts are ^reat thieves. Their European masters and mistresses, if they allowed themselves to be at the mercy of all their servants indiscriminately, would be robbed of every article of value. As it is impossible to guard against all the household - usually very numerous - it is customary to make a compromise. The keys of the wardrobes and closets are given to one of the servants, who pilfers on his own account ; but, as a set-ofif, keeps all the other pilferers off. He is dishonest as regards himself, but scrupulously honest on behalf of his fellow-servants. He may be safely trusted to prevent <^Dy of them from purloining on their own account. This plan is found to answer very well. It is, however, not particularly moral. Doubtless, it is convenient, but the truly moral and principled course of action would be to set one's face sternly against thieving altogether. This custom to which I allude is exactly paralleled by the procedure of introdudng attenuated virus into a living economy in order to keep out stronger virus of the same hind. It is putting a thief inside the house, and giving him the keys and the run of the whole tenement, in order to keep other thieves out. It is, so to speak, physical immo- rality ; it is expediency, but not principle. Now, the nearer we can get to principles, the nearer we get to essentials, and, therefore, to the Divine. And, on the contrary, the more we incline to expediency, the lower the ground we take, and the less likely is it to prove firm under our feet. Building upon principle, we build upon a rock, and neither storm nor flood shall prevail against our house. But expediency is as the shifting sand, which tie tide of time undermines and overwhelms, and on which no wise man sets his habitation. There are two issues to the question we are considering, one represented by hygiene, the other by prophylactic medicine. T am a   hygienist, as are all vegetarians. Hygiene constitutes a system in accordance with principle, and of hygiene as of vrisdom, it may be said : '^ Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her patha are peace." Hygiene is at war with no innocent thing; she sheds no blood, and she poisons none. Prophylactic medicine does both. Its advocates, acting from motives of expediency, bring forward such measures as the Contagious Diseases Act, the legalisation of vivisection, compulsory inoculation of disease, and so forth. The whole aim of the present medical school seems to be to make vice, dirt, and unclean living safe. The object of the hygienist, on the contrary, is to make vice and disease impossible, by purifying the blood, and by uprooting from the body the seeds of evil conditions and of the impure states which predispose both to bodily and to moral deterioration. This sounds like Utopia, but, if you will believe me, it is true and possible. If people would only make up their minds to live cleanly, and to cast out dirt from their homes and from their bodies, they would stamp out disease, for disease is nothing but dirt. To have a sound mind in a sound body it is necessary to eschew all unclean ways of living, to breathe pure air, to bathe frequently, to change our garments often, and, in short, to set water, air, and fire - the three great purifiers - everywhere to work. The doctors, however, act on the plan of *^ casting out devils by Beel- zebub ; *' that is, they put disease inside the body to drive disease away. The only right method is to cast out devils by the *^ finger of God," which, in the language of my profession, means health. To lead a healthy life is the best and truest prophylactic measure, and will, in the lon^ run, prove far more efficacious than any doctnne of expediency.  The last horrible craze of the expediency school of medicine is the proposal to prevent tubercular consumption by implanting into the system attenuated tubercle I The same me- thod is suggested in regard to diphtheria, scarlet-fever, cholera, anthrax, and many other maladies. This is what Dr. Garth ^Ikinson aptly calls '' stopping all murrains by giving all murrains." On this theory it will not be long before the germs of every foul and horrible disease induced b^ generations of evil living, will be deliberately introduced by the lancet into the blood of every little child born into this most miserable and doctor-ridden world. Nor is this .all, for as vaccination or inoculation is protective for a limited time only, such operations will have to be continually repeated, and the blood will be maintained in a constant state of impurity. For inoculation b protective only so long as the sys- tem remains under the influence of the disease. As soon as the " protective " thief leaves the house, you must put another in. That is not my doctrine. I advise as the only and true preventives of disease and promoters of health, cleanliness, pure air, virtuous living, the burning by fire of all putrescent matter, including dead bodies, and a system of ponular education i^ven at the Board Schools, by wnich the elements of physiology and the chemistry of foods shall be taught - a kind of learning which, I venture to think, will be infinitely more useful than much now required by the standards.   .   47   Dr W. J. Collins, B.S., B.Sc.   Dr. Collins, in seconding the Eesolution, sdd : - Since the last annual meeting, two promi- nent events have occurred - the campaign of Dr. Carpenter, and the preaching of M. Pasteur. The *' Father of English Physiology," who has taken to himself an adopted son, in the shape of vaccination, has alreaay been sufficiently disposed of. Any of his arguments that have escaped from Stemway Hall nave been quenched by Mr. Peter Taylor^s logic in the Nineteenth Century, With regard to Pasteur, some people are looking forward to what is called the Pastorian Millennium, when Parliament will enforce the inoculation of every individual with every disease, in order to  })Teserve the nation in perfect health. What re-ation do the experiments of Pasteur bear to the subject of vaccination ? The advocates of vaccination seek to make capital out of his experiments, in order to bolster up vaccination ; and in doing so, they make use of most unwarrantable analogy, and push the theory to an extra- vagant extreme. Pasteur himself says there is a great difference between the two classes of facts, and that his use of the term is intended rather as a compliment to Jenner than from belief in the analogy of his experiments with vaccination. What Pasteur has established may be put into two propositions- first, that the causes of zymotic disease may be destroyed by means of atmospheric oxygen ; and second, that inoculation of an individual with attenuated disease will preserve from future attack. These experiments have been investigated and repeated upon an extensive scale, but with very dinerent results, and two things have been established by a committee of investigation in Hungary. First, it is found that this vaccination is by no means a certain protection ; secondly, it is found that this vaccination is by no means a harmless affair. It was shown that out of 100 sheep vaccinated for charhan, no less than five succumbed in the protective process ; and the Commission came to the conclusion that '* the fatal issue of other severe but latent diseases was accelerated by  vaccination." When we remember the Return xnoved for by Mr. Hopwood (** Vaccination Mortality "), we cannot be surprised at that result, for that Return proved that all the inoculable diseases of children nave increased coincidently with increased vaccination. If we apply this to men, we reduce the thing to an absuraity. Supposing we were, as recommended, to inoculate for every zymotic disease - Dr. Richardson and Dr. Farr say there are about thirty such diseases - it is only reasonable to suppose that the same mortality would appertun to each of those diseases as appertained to the one under consideration, namely, 5 per cent. ; erffo, 150 per cent, would die in the process of protecting them against these diseases. Not only would every soul be sacriBced in the process, but half of them would have to die twice over, in order to enjoy the gloriously uncertain protection which they are promised. What is the moral of this? It is that it would be better to " leave well alone," and not try to improve upon health by the attenuated disease of Pasteur, or cowpox, or horse-grease, or what not. ** Better bear the ills we ave than fiy to others that we know not of."   The resolution states that no positive evidence exists of the protective power of calf lymph, while its dangers have been conclusively esta- blished. The advocates of calf lymph have not {>ut it to the only pos^ble test - namely, inocu- ating with smallpox those who have been vaccinated. Jenner did put calf lymph to this test, and, in his own words, "on inoculation with smail-pox, they felt its infiuence just the same as if no disease had been communicated to them by the cow." There has recently been further proof of this at Honolulu, one of the Sandwich Islands, where thorough vaccination of the population with calf lymph had been followed by a very destructive outbreak of smallpox. With regard to the dangers of calf lymph, there are three diseases it may convey or intensify : first, erysipelas, which has been already alluded to. The results of the use of bovine lymph in Canada had been fearful, nearly every one vaccinated at Thomas- viUe having suffered from erysipelas. Mr. Ceely, who was a great authority upon animal lymph, declared that " so far from being likely to produce fewer ailments or cutaneous eruptions, he knew it would produce more." Then with regard to the most important of these imparted diseases - tuberculosis. This is now said to be due to a microscopic parasite ; moreover, it has been shown that this disease can be conveyed from the cow to man by means of the milk ; and if so, it is only reasonable to suppose it can be conveyed by the inflammatory lymph of the vaccine vesicle. That hypothetical evidence is supported by the test recorded in the Medical Times and Oaxette of Sept. 3, 1881 :-   '' M. Toussaint vaccinated a cow in an advanced stage of tuberculosis with lymph absolutely pure. The vesicles progressed normally, and with the lymph obtained from them he vaccinated different animals, all of whom subsequently became tuberculous." " The sifrnificance of these experiments," said the editor of the Medical Times ^ ** can scarcely be over-rated, for though a judicious vaccinator would not use lymph taken from a child who exhi- bited already evidence of the disease, the chances of cows in whom spontaneous vaccinia may appear, and whose lymph would at the present time be eagerly sought after, being, like so many of their species, tuberculous, would be great ; and it would seem in consequence that the dangers of animal vaccination may be greater than those of human, which are supposed to be avoided by having recourse to the cow."  So much for the alleged purity of calf lymph. The Government in adopting animal lymph, while not discarding humanised lymph, are attempting the impossible feat of sitting upon two stools at the same time. With regard to what is called the '^ ethical " side of the question, there is an argument to which sufficient attention has not been paid. We are told that vaccination ought to be compulsory, because unvaccinated  persons are dangerous to the health of others, and that they used their liberty to jeopardise the liberty of others. If that argument were sound, our objection to compulsory vaccination must cease ; but upon analysis it is seen to be utterly faulty. It is presumed that unvaccinated persons are dangerous to others because they could communi' ate smallpox to them - that is to say that unvaccinated    48   THE VACCINATION INQUIItfill.   persons passed their lives in a chronic state of smallpox, or carried smallpox about 'with them. If that be so, then I have Jknown persons carry smallpox about with them all their liyes, not only with impunity to others, but with perfect impuni^ to themseWes. I would not advise vaccinated persons to run the same risk. An unvaccinated person who has not smallpox could not communicate it to others, and is no more dangerous to society than the most perfectly vaccinated person. When vaccinators come back to their senses and get rid of their fixed ideas, they will see to what silly nonsense their theory has committed them. The resolution was adopted unanimously.  Mb. Thomas Baksb.  Mr. Bakeb moved a vote of thanks to Mr* Hopwood for presiding, and said: - It was in 1854 that I commenced to agitate against vaccination, and it gives me great pleasure to see new faces come forward to advocate the repeal of the compulsory law. The next number of the TrutluKeker will contain some of the results of my labours. The evidence against vaccination is cumulative. The last quarterly report of the Registrar-General  ?;ave the smallpox mortality at Ampthill, in Bed- ordshire, as 9,043 (annual rate) per million of population, which is just about the mortality of the worst town in England, during what Dr. Ballard called the '* ferocious ** epidemic of 1871, arguing that, therefore, it ought to be excluded from the calculation. The town which suffered most in 1871 was Great Grimsby, the mortality being 9,500 per million, whereas in London it was only 2,380 per million. Now the death-rate in the first quarter of 1882, in the rural district of Ampthill, was 9,043 per million. One of the magistrates there declared that this was owing to the neglect of vaccination. But he had to eat his words, for the public vaccinator declared there was not an unvaccinated person in the parish.  Mr. Wm. Tebb said be had great pleasure in seconding the resolution.  The motion was carried by acclamation.  The Chairman, in acknowledging the vote of thanks, congratulated the audience on the success of the meeting. They were all working for a common cause, namely, personal liberty in the preservation of health. He noped this cause would continue to progress until it met with perfect success. There were many departments in which watchfulness was required to prevent the growth of mischievous leg^ation. He hoped all would remember and feel encouraged by the lessons and arguments which had been laid before the meeting.  From LoBD Clitton.  Sib,- I regret that I shall be unable to leave Brighton for the annual meeting of the Society. I have been from the first a warm supporter of the new London Society, in addition to the old National League, because I am thoroughly convinced that the one supplies a want which can never be supplied by the other. The National League was avowedly founded on the model of   the Anti-Corn Law League, as an organisation calculated to influence elections, both Parliamentary and municipal, throughout the country, the local leagues being federally united by a national league. I understand that some members of the old League even raise the objection that a Victoria Street Society will not have influence over the Westminster elections t This seems to me a most one-sided view to take of any society; but in the case of a society having for its object the scientific preservation of human life from death and disease, it becomes specially necessary that there should be some other form of activity displayed beyond merely dinning into the ears of parliamentary and mum- cipal candidates that the compulsory vacdiiation law is a bad thin^. I think that the parliamentary and mumcipal electioneering work is very well supervised by the National League, but only a Society sitting in London could have combined, as this society does, the wit and wisdom and medical and statistical knowledge of the more educated opponents of vaccination, whether living in London themselves or not. I can imagine nothing more admirable for the purpose than the short, incisive leading articles after the manner of the " Spectator " m the " Inquirer," which is deserving of the utmost support. Those articles, and the more detailed but still brilliant essays of our excellent President, furnish a want which mere declamation, however powerful, coold never have supplied.  I would respectfully urge upon the Society the great necessity of going to the root of the Jennerian superstition, and not to be too much diverted by the '' red rays " which our ignorant opponents display to catch our view, and to deceive the still more ignorant populace. I allude to such ridi- culous stories as that of Escott, at Rotherhithe, and the suit of clothes. For one unvaccinated person, or family, that has had small ^ox, we can oring ten vaccinated cases. What is far more important, is to detect the earliest germs of the superstition. Jenner was no inventor ; he merely claimed to have successfully eliminated the evils of the Turkish inoculation introduced to this country by my own ancestress, I am sorry to say, Lady Mary Wortiey Montagu. Jenner claimed for vaccine inoculation the same protectiveness, neither more nor less, as was claimed for the variolous. Therefore, it fol- lows logically that if variolous inoculation was a humbug, so also is vaccine. It is useless to attack Jenner, if you do not also attack Dimsdale and the Suttons. We derive the idea of protective inoculation originally from Turkish ladies - not from Gloucestershire milkmaids. I would urge upon the Society to go into that question, upon what data was the theory of protectiveness founded in Turkey? . I should imagine that the notion was in equal parts superstitious, ftrom the idea that smallpox was a genius or demon, who only took his toll once for each person; and secondly, consisting of a confusion between actuarial probability and scientific causation. The nrobabiUty that an average of persons would only have smallpox once was confused with a sup- posed law of nature, that a person could only have It once. But now we are oeginning to see that, though the gene^l probability may be less, the   .   49   actual capacity to be infected maybe increased by a previous attack ; and, if this can be proved, the whole structure of inoculation as a preventive falls to the ground.  I am, sir, yours faithfully, Brighton, May 11, 1882. Clifton.  From SiOMOB Gbysanowski.  Dbaa Mb. Tbbb, - I regret not to be able to attend your meeting on the 17th inst. If I could, I would draw the Society's attention to a German work recently published by Dr. being (almost a namesake, jovl see, of our friend l)r. Boens). This book is one of the best yet written in Germany on vaccination. It contains some new points of view, and corrects certain errors committed alike by friends and foes. But the most remarkable feature of this book is, that the author, an official vaccinator, began his investigation with the intention and in the hope of confuting our arguments, and that, to his own surprise and disgust, he found himself confuted and compelled to proclaim his new conviction. This makes the book most valuable, and being will get a hearing where we never could.  Our gi:eatest obstacles at this moment are Pasteur's and Koch's discoveries, and the childish sensation they have created among the vulgar crowd that calls for cheap health, or health without trouble. It is useless to interfere just now, and I would repeat the counsel given by Dr. Garth Wilkinson m the last Imquibbb, to economise our labour. The doctrines and hopes founded on Pasteur's and Koch's bacteria are so silly that they must colla]^ snontaneously before long. Why should mocmation with " cultivated^ virus not produce disease? But the disease produced is something widely different from the disease which produced the virus.  Wishing you good success, I remain, my dear Mr. Tebb, yours most sincerely,  £. Gbysanowsei.  Leghorn, May 11, 1882.  From Pbgfxssob F. W. Newman.  Deab Sib, - I have engagements which do not bring me to London, but take me northward, so I have no chance of attending your meeting. You ask me, if I cannot come, to write something. I fear that what I write, may seem more like remonstrance than sympathy ; yet it certainly is not from lack of sympathy.  I confess I have fears that your organ and your Parliamentary Leader ( to whom I cannot but allude with honour) faU into what I regard as the trap which medical men lay for you. Your leading writers are so deeply read in the history of smallpox, that they fearlessly meet their opponents on the ground which those opponents choose, pretending that it is the legitimate field of contest, which i emphatically deny. I believe that Mr. P. A. Taylor, Dr. Pearce, Dr. Garth Wilkinson, and others, splendidly confute medical supporters of vaccination in the statistical combat ; nevertheless, I hold it to be a dangerous error to tight politically thus, and I beg to give my reasons.  Wo can only win against an overworked Parliament, an educated class stupidly believing in   orthodox medicine, and a faculty which dreads a humiliating fall and a vast loss of salaries and fees, - only, I sa^, by the aid of an enthusiastic public ; but statistical argument admits of endless iraud, and the confutation of fraud cannot be so remembered that each hearer may make it his own. Statistics, like mathematics, need technical study, and cannot be popularised in any detail. If I attempt to reason on them, a medical man is sure to contradict me flatly ; then, [unless I had all the documents in my hand to appeal to, and my head full of the figures, I cannot so reason that an audience (small or great) will be able to see that I am right ; and what is true of me is true of ninety-nine persons out of a hundred. I think you deplorably neglect the really popular and convincing arguments to which even besotted rulers would soon be forced to yield. Your Society professes to oppose compulsory vaccination; yet^ when you meet, your chairman allows some doctor to deliver a lengthened address which does not touch on compulsion, an address wholly out of place and out of time. I say to doctors, '' You have unjustiy and stealthily managed to pass at mid- night laws which grip us by the throat, and enforce your doctrines. Do not expect us to reason against them until you have unloosed your throttling grasp. Our reasoning now is against the unjust and atrodous law of infusing dueasci of doing manifest evil, manifest injustice, in hope that good will come. It will be time enough to meet your medical argument after the despotic compulsion is removed.  I am quite aware that, as in old days kings were incensed to be told that there was a limit to their just and lawful power, so an English Parliament resents the utterance that there is a limit to rightful Parliamentary compulsion. Mr. P. A. Tavlor knows how to say this to Parliament in the least offensive way. I think it will have to be said in St. Stephen s, the sooner the better, but it certainly must be said in every public meeting, and said in suqh a tone that M.P.'s may be reminded how dangerous is tyran- nical law to its upholders. No rulers have, or can have, a right to infuse disease into healthy bodies. It is a gross and detestable usurpation, and must be denounced as such. So too must we protest publicly against stealthy midnight legislation of penal law, which is goingon even now under medical intrigue, as Mr. Hopwood lately showed. Our complaint is both deeper and broader than the statistical argument. Yet there is one form of statistics which admits of no fraud and needs no careful study or memory to understand ; and here one fact ought to be held on high as for a banner. smallpox does not increase total mortality ; but, if anything, it diminishes it. No vaccinationist dares to assert that it increases it. Therefore we have herein a ludd proof that medical men, and even such chemists as Dr. Lyon Playfair, throw dust into men's eyes bypretendinjf that smallpox is a national evil, and that vaccination saves life. Even on this ground Parliament has no case for troubling itself about this disease, if vaccination were ever so harmless and ever so efficient affainst smallpox. When^ apparentiy the totu mortality is actually diminished by smallpox, enactments against it are worse than silly. But when it is undeniable that  vaccination  (so called) has produced other disease, and neither Parliament nor any medical skill can give any guarantee against death by erysipelas or the total poisoning of the blood through the surgeon^s lancet, compulsion becomes not only unjust, but atrocious. Moreover, the surgeons who enforce it naturally became rude and cruel. A poor mother who had lost one child by vaccination told me that the surgeon, in pressing her husband to give up a second, replied to her remonstrances and entreaty : " What does the loss of a child signify to you ? You are young enough to have plenty more ! '' He believed that his fingers had the grip of the father's throat. Shall we enter on a medical argument with men who hold this posture ? Nay, we must utter Mr. Gladstone's cry, "Hands off ! " to the doctors and to Parliament.  The doctors probably know well that to repeal the compulsion would quickly lead to their further humiliation, for the educated would soon leurn from below. In my judgment, our proper way with the doctors is to carry the war into their finances by disavowing all their mischievous pretensions to high authority on other matters on which they misinterpret human rights and pervert truth under scientific assumption, such as the topic of insanity, and matters too foul now to touch.  I hope that you will have an enthusiastic meeting, and that the audience will loudly proclaim that to infuse disease into healthy bodies is an incfefensible wickedness and a palpable usurpation.  I pray you to 'make your resolutions political and popular, appealing to human right. - I am, truly yours, F. W. Newman.  May 1, 1882.  Telegram from Mb. Francis Davis, Jun., Enniscobthy.  I AH sorry I cannot be with you, save in fullest sympathy, to-night. I wish you a successful meeting and God speed.  From Sib Jebvoise Clabke Jebtoise, Babt.  It is from the love of their fellow-creatures, with no regard to remuneration (Oh, dear no !), that the Faculty insist on Vaccination ; but we are told by Tom Moore : -  " Love will never bear enslaving,  Summer garments suit him best ; Bliss itself were not worth having Were we by compulsion blest."  From Dr Scheuebman, Basle, May 15.  Wb have obtained not only 30,000, but 79,200 signatures against the Vaccination Law! Our vaccinators shall be caught-at Sedan.   N.B.- ^   letters are held over   sazione was held  idence in Albert-  ou was enlivened   " ¦ * " • • • •  with the Dr ging of Miss A. Campbell, Miss Maggie Reece, and Mr. Young. The following friends were present on the occasion : - Mr. Appel, Mr. Bottomley, Mr. Thomas Baker, Mr. F. Baker, Mr. and Mrs. Beurle, Mrs. F. J. Campbell, Miss A. Campbell, Dr. Collins, Dr. W. J. Collins, Mrs. Coombs, Signer Damiani, Mr. H. D. Dudgeon, Mr. C. Dornbusch, Miss M. E. Drew, Miss S. Drew, Mr. Fells, Miss Ford, Mr. Corrie Grant, Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Godbe, Mrs. Hallock, Mrs. Harvey, Miss Houghton, Dr. and Mrs. Haughton, Dr. Anna Kingsford, Mr. J. Hiam Levy, Mrs. Lowe, Miss Mazucato, Mr. W. T. Martin, Mr. H. Mozley, Misa Mina, Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Massey, Mr. T. H. Moore, Mr. Edward Maitland, Miss Macalister, Mr. Cornelius Pearson, Miss Rees, Miss Maffgie Keece, Mr. and Miss Shorter, Miss Samuels, Mr. Z. Spear, Mrs. R. P. Tebb, Miss A. Tebb, Mr. G. Tompsitt, Mr. A. Vacher, Dr. Garth Wilkinson, Mr. and Mrs. Wallace, Mr. and Mrs. White, Mr. Young, &c., &c.  THE CHINESE IN SAN FRANCISCO.  Fiction.  No sanitation will exclude smallpox, and San Francisco is a case in point. It is the most healthy large tovTn of which I know ; but there a focus of smallpox is kept up by the Chinese, who convey it into the most healthy habitations. The population of San Francisco is about 290,000, with a Chinese quarter inhabited by about 20,000, adult males mostly, who pig together in filth and bestiality. Vaccination cannot be enforced on the Chinese, and they keep up a smouldering fire of smallpox. Now, how do the Chinese come to affect the general population? Why, in this way. They are laundrymen; they go into the best houses ; they are artisans of various orders. They manufacture articles and send them out. They have been known to be making slippers, for instance, in a room where there was a body lying dead of smallpox. Thus the Chinese colony is a focus of the disease. - Dr W. B. Cabpenteb, at Steinway Hall, Feb. 3.  Fact.  The Medical Officer of the State Board of Health of San Francisco has made a report upon the Chinese in that city, which has oeen laid before Congress. He states that he never knew any disease or pestilence originating or spreading in the Chinese quarter. He admits that they li?e closely packed, but attributes their healthy condition and immunity from disease to their frugal life. "They eat,* he says, "only what is necessary to live upon. They eat to live, and do not live to eat. They are clean in their habits, and they drink no whiskey. I have never seen a drunken Chinaman in my life. They consequently possess a better resisting power to disease. They constantly wash themselves, and keep themselves and their clothes clean. The death-rate is ^eater among the whites than among the Chinese; greater with adult white people than with adult Chinamen. There have been no epidemics among them, and there has been less smallpox among them than among the whites, allowing for the ratio of population." - Pall Mall GazeUej May 1.      51   DR. BUCHANAN TO KENTIGEKN. 186, Bath-fltreet, Glasgow, May 10, 1882.  My DBiUt Sib, - I have read with much interest and attention your two letters, but I most say that I am quite unable to determine in how far we agree, and in how far we differ.  You deal always with generalities, but I want you to descend to particulars, and then it will appear distinctly in how far we agree and in how far we differ. In the first place, I think you will acquiesce in the statement that during the last fifty years the mortality from natural smallpox has undeivone no change from the mortality m 1820, when I first saw the disease, with a mortality from one in three, yarying up to one in five, which is the mortality at the present (lay, as attested by the last Report of the  smallpox  Hospital in London. This is the foundation of Mr. Taylor's assertion that the mortality of the protected Ibigland of the nineteenth century is just the same as that of the unprotected England of the century before. You do not hold this. You say the type of the disease has changed; that we have a revival of the experience of Isaac Massey, in whose practice the deaths were 1 in 94. Inow, please state in your reply if, in the sweet country of your adoption, you have not found the disease milder still,, approaching, or perhaps exceeding, my estimate of 1 in 800? At all events, state distinctly what your experience is. Has the district in which you practise been well vaccinated by your predecessors, and if you ever saw in it a case of genuine natural smallpox ?  As to your argument, that the benefit of vaccination IS confined to the rich, and that the poor have no participation in it, I can give it the most unqualified contradiction. I have always had poor people among my patients, and for several years I had the charge of the poor in the very worst districts of the city, that of the old and new and back Wynds and the Goosedubbs, and in that ^Ithy district vaccination was just as benefidal as in Blythswood-square, or any other aristocratic Strict of the city. - I remain, my dear sir, yours sincerely, A. Buchanan.   KENTIGERN TO DR. BUCHANAN.  My Dbab Sib, - I try to write plainly, but with all my pains I am frequently misunderstood. Let me try to clear away the mist that appears to lie between us.  first, I would observe that I have no fcdth whatever in vaccination as a preventive or mitigant of smallpox; and that 1 fully concur in Mr. P. A. Taylor's contention that what  smallpox  was last century without vaccination,  smallpox  is this century with vaccination, as proved by faosjntal returns. Mark, please, that I refer to hospital smallpox, which is the smallpox of the poor and wretched, inclusive of their children. We have not the statistics of the limited  smallpox  among the comfortable classes, but there is every reason to assume that if such statistics were available, either for this century or last century, they would exhibit a much lower rate of   mortality than the hospitals. As Isaac Massey observed in 1727 : -  " There ought to be no comparisom between sick people, well regimented with diet and medicine, and those who have no assistance, or scarcely the necessaries of life."  In 49 cases of smallpox, Massey had only one death ; and yoii, in 300 cases, had only one death ; proving in last century and in this that smallpox, when exhibited under fair conditions of life, is by no means a formidable disorder; although, like measles and scarlatina, what is amenable to rational regimen may, through neglect or perversity, have a fatal issue. The danger is less in the ailment than in the circumstances and treatment of the patient ; and in saying so, I indulge in no paradox, but simply reiterate the judgment of medi(Mil men unsubjected to the enchantments of vaccination.  Again, allow me to recall attention to the fact that the chief mortality of smallpox is infantile. Mr. Hodgson, public vaccinator at Rochdale, brought this fact into prominence the other day, in saying: -  " When smallpox attacks a child under two years of age, it is nearly always fatal."  Here, too, let me observe afresh, that at the age when smallpox is most dangerous, the children of the well-to-do are secluded from its influence in the wholesome and regular habits of ' the nursery. The reverse is the case with the children of the poor. Willing and industrious mothers among the poor find it hard to do justice to their offspring, but what shall we say of the careless, the slatternly, and the drunken, who treat their babes as encumbrances, allowing them to ferment in their own filth, huddled anywhere and anyhow, so that they be quiet and relieve them from attention? Can we wonder that infancy thus dealt with should be the prey of smallpox and other disorders?  You complain that I keep to generalities, and do not descend to particulars ; but it is to parti- culars I appeal. I always object to have the statistics of smallpox handled without discrimination, as if smallpox were a disease that affected indifferently all ranks and all ages. Figures, apart from the details of which they are the abstracts, may gravely mislead, and it is for us to insist on ascertaining their definite application. At the same time we have to beware of general- ising from individual or special experience, how- ever accurately defined. It would never do, for instance, to cite Massey, and say the mortality of smallpox is 1 in 49 ; or to cite you, and say it is 1 in SOO. Nor may we generalise from certain epidemics of smallpox, as if what was true of one epidemic was true of other epidemics. Reading the other day in Jenner's Inquiry, I came upon this instructive passage : -  " There are certainly more forms than one, with- out considering the common variatipn between the confluent and distinct,, in which Rxnall-poz .appears in what is called the natural way. Aboii^ seven, years ago a species of smallpox spread through \^ many of the towns and villages of this part of •'.•. Gloucestershire ; it was of so mild a' nature that a fatal instance was scarcely ever heard of, and conjy^v ' sequently, so little dreaded by the lower orders of    52      the coxnmiiiiity, that they scrupled not to hold the same intercourse with each other as if no infections disease had been present among them. I never saw nor heard of an instance of its being confluent. The most accurate manner, perhaps, in which I can conyey an idea of it is by saying, that had fifty individocds been taken promiscuously and infected by exposure to this contagion, they would have had as mild and light a disease as if they had been inoculated with variolous matter in the nsual way. The harmless manner in which it showed itself could not arise from any peculiarity either in the season or the weather, for I watched its process upwards of a year without perceiving any variation in its general appearance.' '  Such was a certain epidemic of smallpox before ?accinatioD was heard of ; but how unfairly should I argue if I bet forth such an epidemic as an example of smallpox in general! Yet were a similar epidemic to appear at this day in Clydes- dale, can we doubt that every doctor in Gla^ow would be saying, " See the effects of vaccination I See how it has tamed a dreadful disease ! What can these ignorant and fanatical anti-vaccinists say now ? "  You ask whether I have seen a case of small  r>x without vaccination. 1 do not recollect that have, but I have met with many cases of  smallpox  after vaccination ; some after re-vaccination ; and one specially severe case after vaccination had been repeated six times. Vaccinationy I am persuaded, has no influence on smallpox, unless, perhaps, to facilitate and intensify its attack. To find a case of smallpox at this day among the unvaccinated is not easy. Those who are convinced of the evil and folly of vaccination, and withhold their children from the superstitious rite, are not commonly in the way of catching smallpox. One's experience would have to lie among the ofbpring of tramps and other vagrants to meet with cases of unvaccinated smafl-pox. Vaccination is practically universal in my neigh- bourhood, just as it is in the little town of Ampthill, in Bedfordshire, where the entire population has been vaccinated for the past half-century, and the vaccination officer has been rewarded for his complete and excellent work. Nevertheless, Ampthill, thoroughly vaccinated, has just passed through an epidemic of smallpox of remarkable extension and severity.  Concerning this Ampthill outbreak, you will observe that a judicious silence has been maintained by the press ; but suppose it had occurred in a community largely unvaccinated, like that of Keighley, woiud not the fact have been trumpeted far and wide as an awful warning to those who question the veradty of the immortal Jenner? And what shall we say of a practice that owes its existence to such tactics, to sup- pression here and exposure there, under the persistent motive - the greater glory of vaccination? At the same time, let me predict that when the Ampthill lull of mortality comes to be made up, the inhabitants will find they have suffered nothing from their variolous visitation ; that their average death-rate has been much the same as usual: and that certain other causes of death have been displaced by smallpox. It would be just the same were smallpox to break out in Keighley - the absence of vaccination would not   increase the general mortality. We have to write it up in large letters^ that the zymotic death-rate m an^ community is only reducible by improved conditions and modes of life. Werer it possible to substitute one variety of disease for another, where would be the profit if the total of illness and death remained the same? It is sheer vanity to specialise a form of zymotic disease like smallpox, and strive to subdue it without reference to its assodate forms; and the time cannot be far distant when sanitarians will treat with indifference the mere variety of fever which happens to be prevalent; knowinc^ that the causes ox one are the causes of all, and that while the causes remiun, it is useless to be concerned over the nomenclature of effects.  The benefit of discussion commonly renudna with those who OTerhear it, rather than with those who engage in it ; but I hope this correspondence may have shown to you that disbelief in vaccination is neither reckless nor ignorant. From you I have learnt anew that belief in the practice is retainable in perfect good faith, with that spirit of sweet reasonableness which, in the end, leads its possessor to all truth. - Sincerely and gratef uUy yours, Kentigebn.   OFFICIAL COOKEKY.  The Registrar-General, in his forty-third Annual Beport just issued, argues in favour of re-vaccination from the fact that fewer children die of  smallpox  than formerly, whereas the fatality among adults is g^reater. This changed incidence of mortality is, however, not confined to smallpox, but extends to other diseases, as the Begristrar-Generalhimself admits in his forty-second Beport, where, speaking of the diminished general death-rate, he says : - "The whole of the improvement referred to has been effected in saving young Uvea, while adults are dying at a greater rate than they used to do." It is odd to find the Begistrar-General going out of his way to commend vaccination and re-vaccination. In some future report we may look for a disquisition on the influence of Chlorodyne and Eno's Fruit Salt on the popular health. That he should give six pages to the consideration of smallpox, which stands seventy-third in the order of mortality, whilst other diseases which sweep away hundreds of thousands are dismissed with barely a reference, can only be accounted for by the rising alarm for the safety of vaccination. What, for instance, can be said of the following artful dodge ? Desiring to exhibit a Table whereon smallpox should appear as a diminishing quantity, the Registrar-Greneral thus arranges his figures : -   Years.  1847-53 (7 years)  1864-70 (17 " )  1871-80 (10 " )   Mean Annual  Dratha per Million Living.   805 228 156   These figures are got by selection, and irregfular and absurd averages. On p. 79 of the Beport it is stated that the mean annual death-rate from small* pox for the five years 1870-74 was 433 per million living, yet by swamping these years, in seventeen on one side and ten on the other, we see how the truth is sought to be concealed. If we played such tricks, what would be said of us ? We shall return to the matter. - Wm. Young.   He who knowi onlj his own side of the case, knows Kttle of that.-^. Stuxit Mili,. Prejudice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.-AuDRBY Db Vbm.   Cte Ifatcittatimt Ittxpiirer   :fliLcL Jfe.aLtk Bteaieui.   Vol. IV., No. 40.]   JULY, 1882.   [Pkice Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.   The House of Commons has become a sort of Irish and Egyptian whirlpool, wherein all good projects are lost Thus, the second reading of Mr. r. A. Taylor's Bill for the repeal of the compulsory dausea of the Vaccination Acta, fixed for June 21, was pushed aside, and transferred to August 9. Whether, at the later date, there will be any better opportunity is doubtful. It is hard to be thus frustrated in testing the sense of Parliament, but let us utilise the delay in bringing the question under the notice of as many M.P.'s as possible, remembering that it is in ignorance that the opposition of the majority is estab- lished. In anticipation of a debate on June 21, many petitions for the abolition of compulsory vaccination were presented : by Mr. P. A. Taylor from London, Huddersfield, Halifax, Stamford, and other places ; by Mr. Hibbert from Oldham ; by Mr. Barran from Leeds; by Mr. Ilinde Palmer from Lincoln ; by Mr. J. Howard from Shefford and Biggleswade ; and by Mr. J. Kamsay from Slamannan and adjacent parishes. As concerns petitions, the reports are most encouraging. Apparently it only requires canvassing to obtain any number of signatures. In some towns almost every householder in certain streets, and every v^orkman in certain shops, professed unqualified opposition to the law ; and it becomes more and more evident that with adequate organisation it would not be difiicult to convert so much latent opinion into active political force.   Dr W. a. Guy read a paper entitled " Two Hundred and Plfty Years of smallpox in Lon- don " before the Statistical Society on June 20. The paper was specially valuable as bringing together the available vital statistics of London for a long series of years, and collating all causes of death with smtdl-pox, measles, and hooping- cough. It is true that the Bills of Mortality for the 17tb, IStb, and the early part of the 10th centuries are to be accepted with many qualifications, but they teach much if we do not press them too far. Anyhow, it is of importance to   get out of the realm of imaginative rhetoric, and come down to hard facts so far as such facts are attainable. Our vaccinators have gone far to persuade the public that prior to the intro- duction of their nostrum, Londoners were decimated with smallpox, and that every third or fourth citizen exhibited a pock- marked face. Dr. Guy sets before us the evil in its real proportions, and shows that during the eighteenth century about one death in ten in London was due to smallpox. At the same time, it is to be borne in mind that much the larger part of this severe mortality was infant mortality, and that when smallpox abated, death did not abate, but was transferred to other modes of disease. It is to Dr. Guy's credit that he recognises that a fall in smallpox is by no means equivalent to a fall in death, and that he studies smallpox, not as an isolated and independent entity, but as a correlated and convertible form of disease. This, we hold, is the condition precedent to any useful discusaon of the pheno- mena of smallpox ; and with Dr. Guy's impartial and scientific temper, and readiness to entertain adverse views, we are not without hope that he will yet do justice to our side of the question. He is a man of an entirely different type from the ordinary vaccination Goliath with whom we are so disagreeably familiar.   Dr Guy i^, as he says, a believer in vaccination under compulsion of statistical evidence. Vaccination was introduced, and smallpox diminished ; and he can imagine no better explanation. But we would suggest to Dr. Guy whether in his desire to produce an explanation, he has not invented one. His figures show that smallpox had begun to decline at the close of last century, before vaccination was heard of, and that the decline continued into the present century ; and here it is that, wo hold. Dr. Guy has gone astray. First, it is obvious that vaccination did not initiate the decline. Second, if vaccination, when introduced in 1798, had been generally adopted, we should still have objected to its being described as the cause of a decline that was pronounced previous to its exhibition ; but when we remember that up to Jenner's death in 1823 not ten per cent, of the Londoners had submitted to  vaccination ^ and these of the classes least subject to smallpoxy it is scarcely necessary to point out that Dr. Guy's contention is completely nullified. Unless he is prepared to teach that vaccination possesses a vicarious efficacy, and that applied to one man it saves ten men, with what reason can he ascribe the fall in London smallpox to the vaccination of a fraction of Londoners ? To prove his thesis, it was essential that he should show that vaccination was concurrent and coextensive with the decline of smallpox, but this he can- not do, and knows that he cannot do ; and but for the unconscious bias in favour of vaccination that possesses him, his natural perspicacity would have prevented him from occupying a position so untenable. As for explaining the fall in London smallpox that set in toward the close of last century, it would, perhaps, be wiser to refrain from explanation, and rest satisfied with the observation of the fact, as we do in the case of some other diseases that have either disappeared or diminished. The fall in smallpox, moreover, was not confined to London, but extended to other European capitals and countries, and was equally well marked in Sweden, Denmark, and Northern Italy, where also vaccination had the credit, post hoc^ and as unwarrantably.   We have also to note what we may describe as the anachronism that pervades Dr. Guy's paper. The Londoners of 250 years are treated as one people, dwelling in the same houses, living on the same fare, and possessing the same habits. With how many fallacies is such a conception charged ! The London of last century was radically unlike the London of the present, and to run compansons between their conditions as to health and mortality, is to involve ourselves in illusions. The London of George II. and III. was a densely-compacted community, fed on bread, beef, and beer, with few vegetables and less fruit, crowded in narrow streets honey-combed with cesspools, with a meagre water-supply, imperfect drainage, and churchyards reeking with decomposition. That in such circumstances, coupled with the practice of variolation, there should have been much smallpox, and a death- rate often greater than the birth-rate, we regard as matter of course, only wondering that the consequences were not more deadly. On the other hand, the London of Victoria is not a city so much as a congeries of towns and wide-spreading suburbs, many of them salubrious as the open   country, and as likely to be afflicted with ague or yellow fever as smallpox. At the same time there are quarters included in London which go far to reproduce the characteristics of the past century, where smallpox is rarely absent, and occasionally epidemic. Yet strange procedure! This smallpox, chiefly adhering to certain quarters, is detached and described as London smallpox, and is diluted in the entire population of the metropolis; and a smallpox death-rate exhibited, which, placed in contrast with the smallpox death-rate of 18th century London, is set forth as evidence of what has been achieved by vaccination. In this procedure Dr. Guy follows his predecessors; but surely he can recognise its absurdity. Where is the sense, we ask, in swamping the smallpox death-rate of Rotherhithe, for example, in the populations of Highgate and Kensington? We get nothing that answers to reality in such mixtures, and tables that, under the appearance of scientific exactitude, blend figures thus incompatible, are no more than elaborate mystitica'tions.   Dr W. B. Carpenter has paid Mr. P. A. Taylor a well-deserved compliment. Mr. Taylor has hit him often and hit him h ard, but he has never turned on his adversary. He has written at Mr. Taylor, but has not ventured to close with him. That he has surveyed Mr. Taylor's ^josition, and has formed a shrewd estimate of its strength, has been made manifest in a fashion as amusing as characteristic. Mr. Taylor, in his article in the May number of the Nineteenth Cmturtf^ had (citing from Dr. Pearce's Vital Statistics) given the mean annual mortality per million from smallpox in England and Wales in the five years, 1876-79, as 344 instead of 82- the correct figure. " Here, then," cried Dr. Carpenter, "have I caught him at last!" and forthwith dispatched a letter to the Echo proclaiming his discovery of the " extraordinary blunder ; " adding, " I feel sure that Mr. P. A. Taylor is far too honourable a man to be guilty of intentional falsification, and I can only suppose that the number 344 was palmed off upon him by some one else, and was accepted without examination, as strongly supporting his argument." Who that knows Dr. Carpenter in connection with this vaccination question - a convicted blunderer, un" confessed, blatant, impenitent - can read this adjuration to Mr. Taylor's honour without recalling Dr. Newman's reference to preaching without practising - the common theme of satirists from Juvenal to Walter Scott I ''I left Baby   .   55   Charles and Steenie laying his duty before him/' says Eiog James of the reprobate Dalgamo. ''0 Geordie, jingling Geordie, it was grand to bear Baby Charles laying down the guilt of dissimulation, and Steenie lecturing on the turpitude of incontinenoe.**   Dr Cabfenter's ecstasy was, however, soon cut short. It was nothing to Mr. Taylor to admit that a mistake had been made. If the mortality from smallpox in England and Wales had fallen to 82 per million in the five years, 1875-79, what of it? If smallpox had even become extinct in the same period, what of it? The argument is that when smallpox falls off, it is due to  vaccination, and that when it revives, the increase is ascribed to defective or absent vaccination, though all the while vaccination may be equally prevalent. In the five years, 1870-74, the smallpox death-rate per million in England and Wales was 433, and no one pretends that there was less vaccination in those years than in 1875-79, when the rate was 82. The very elements of common sense appear to be forsaken when men like Dr. Car- penter undertake the defence of vaccination. Moreover, we repeat, of what consequence is it that we should have more or less smallpox if the public health is not improved and the zymotic death-rate reduced? Mr. Edwin Chadwick spoke wisely when he said, " Keep your eye on the death-rate, and let nothing satisfy you short of its reduction." *^ It is not in dispute,'' writes Mr. Taylor, " that there has been for about a century a continuous decline in smallpox mortality ; but while Dr. Carpenter attributes this wholly to vaccination, I maintain, on the contrary, that there is no evidence what- ever that vaccination has had anything to do with it.'' The force of this contention Dr. Car- penter does not even attempt to meet ; and how be feels his difficulty is plainly shown by the reckless eagerness with which he snatched at a fancied advantage over Mr. Taylor, labelling his solitary detection as " Anti - Vaccination Statistics," as if it were a fair sample of the whole ; " cackling over it," as Mr. Taylor observes, '' like an old hen that has laid an egg"   Dr. Robebtson, the Registrar-General for Scotiand, is evidentiy of Danton's mind as concerns audacity. In his annual report, he draws attention to the fact that only four deaths from smallpox were recorded throughout the year, adding, ''This is a most satisfactory circum- stance, for which we have no doubt, in a great meaflare, to thank our excellent Vaccination   Act, and the common-sense of our people which does not dispose them to receive without qualification the statements of the anti-vaccinators." Dr. Robertson cannot be ignorant that exactiy the same sort of satisfaction was expressed in the House of Commons by Dr. Lyon Playfair in 1870. The same excellent  vaccination Act had exterminated smallpox in Scotland, and the common sense of his most admirable countrymen was held up for universal imitation. Yet, sad to say, within two years, 1871-72, nearly 4,000 Scots perished of smallpox, the said exterminated disease, notwithstanding their vaccination and common sense! What has been, will be. smallpox will in due season return to Scotland and carry off its tale of victims, in utter disregard of vaccination. Then, when another respite follows, we shall have the Begistrar-General again ascribing it to " our excellent Vaccination Act and the common sense of our people." As long as a practice so profitable as vaccination can be maintained, the requisite audacity and flattery are not likely to be wanting.   The Metropolitan Asylums Board have published a Memorandum on Vaccination, by Dr. R. D. R. Sweeting, of the Fulham Hospital, which is an elaborate confession of faith in the various vaccine articles at present in vogue, recited with abject superstition, touched here and there with original ignorance and absurdity. Dr. Sweeting gives us his measure at starting in describing Jenner as " a nephew of Hunter," and Jenner's monographs as the fruit of " long and laborious research, arrived at by the correct inductive methods, and subjected to true scientific tests." With biography and criticism of this quality, we know what to expect, and the bulk does not belie the sample. The difference between vaccinators as to the nature of cowpox, and of Ceely and Badcock's smallpox cowpox is likened by Dr. Sweeting to the difference of physicians over the precise action of digitalis in heart-disease. cowpoxers like Dr. Cameron may denounce smallpox cowpox as a generator rather than a preventive of smallpox ; but it is all the same, argues Dr. Sweeting. " Is a drug," he asks, " to be rejected because there are several contending theories as to its precise action? " We may be absolved, we think, from following an adversary who thus sees no difference between opinion as to the mode of action of a drug and between diverse specifics; and who, moreover, advances nothing that we have not answered over and over again. If Dr. Sweeting addresses the Metropolitan Asylums Board, he wastes his time on the conTerted; if anti-Vaccinists, they will find it hard to refrain from laughing at him. He forgets that anti-vflccinists are experts in the question under discussion^ and that what may paijs muster with those who know little or nothing, is detected and dismissed by them as medical rubbish.   The drift of Dr. S?7eetiiig*s Memorandum is to be found in the recommendations with which it concludes. They are as follows : -  1. The substitution of the Health for the Parochial Authority as administrators of Vaccination.  2. An increased staff of Vaccination Officers, and a more systematic house inquiry in non-epidemic ns well as epidemic years.  3. That the birth of no child should be regis- tered without a certificate of successful  vaccination.  4. Restriction of the performance of  vaccination to Public Vaccinators, who in all cases should have had special training for the work.  In these recommendations we have a dream defined that has long been dreamt - a National Vaccination Establishment, with place, power, and pay for a host of medical men. It is a dream, and, we venture to predict, it will remain a dream. The nation is already burdened with vaccination, but the burden will be no more increased. The limit has been attiuned. Let those who doubt submit a proposition for the extension of the system to the House of Commons, and see how it will be received. As we say to those who clamour for compulsory re-vaccination - Try t   The confessed desire of medical men ^ to preserve vaccination from reproach," is wholly inconsistent with a scientiQc, not to say a moral, attitude of mind. '' Lot us know precisely what vaccination is and does," is the demand of justice and of science. " What is its reproach to us? Let us have the truth." The claim " to preserve vaccination from reproach," marks off those who make it as hucksters and nothing else. A recent article in the British Medical Journal gives point to these observations. Dr. Danford Thomas recently held an inquest at HoUoway on a child which was perfectly healthy up to the date of vaccination, when it died of collapse consequent on the infliction of four scarifications on the arm by the pubUc vaccinator. The evidence of Dr. Wngstaffe was distinct - "If the child had been vaccinated in two places instead of four, then death would probably hot have occurred ; " and the jury returned a verdict of " Death from shock to the system, following vaccination." Now, mark how the British Medical Journal treats this   case. First it is said, ''It is much to be regretted that a qualified medical practitioner (Dr. Wagstaffe) should lend himself in any way to the outcry against vaccination ; and the more so as it is imperative for public vaccinators to make four Bcariflcations, not only in accordance with the directions of the Local Government Board, but also for the protection of children and the public." How, it may be asked, did Dr. Wagstaffe " lend himself to the outcry against vaccination" in suggesting that two scarifications might not have had the effect of four? Have four scarifications become of the essence of faith, which to doubt is to be branded as an ally of anti*vacdinators ? The editor then goes on to censure the evidence without offering any alternative ; and finally describes the verdict as " very regretable, if not unjustifiable, as throwing blame upon a medical brother who had only performed his ordinary professional duties." Comment is superfiuous. Vaccination, at any cost, is to be preserved from reproach, and vaccinators held blameless. We have here neither morals, nor science, nor honest trade, but something that it might be thought too shocking to characterise.   In the Registrar-Generars Report there is an observation which is so characteristic of much that passes current for truth in favour of vaccination, that it is worth specialising. The Registrar writes:-  " Before vaccination came into use few persons escaped having smallpox at some time or other of their lives. the great majority had it when young, and of these a large proportion died, causing a very high death-rate in the earlier age- periods." - r. xxiv.  An evolution this from inner couBdousness. That few persons escaped having smallpox is incondstent with the numbers who, in adult life, submitted to inoculation, and still more w:th the fact that in many rural districts and considerable towns years elapsed without a case of smallpox. Even as regards London, the seat and centre of smallpox , the statement is a gross exaggeration, smallpox being accountable for less than a tenth of the Metropolitan mortality.   It is proposed to publish the Vaccination Inquireb weekly, and there is much to recommend the project. There is abundant material for a weekly issue. Our columns in nowise represent the matter it is desirable to publish, but merely a selection from such matter. We have continually to regret our inability to find space for valuable communications, espedally foreign and colonial.   .   57   There are, for instance, two singularlj interesting reports on vaccination from the legislatures of New South Wales and Victoria, which, so far, we have been able to do little more than mention. The interest in vaccination, alike on scientiGc and political grounds, is rapidly increasing, and it is desirable that it should have adequate representation. Whether the time has come for a weekly publication is the question, and we refer it with confidence to the consideration of our subscribers. It is for them to decide ; and we shall be glad to have the benefit of their judgment.   THE REGISTKAR GENERAL'S REPORT.  the RegistraivGeneral's forty-third annual report is occupied with the old story of the " protective influence of vaccination." Few people nowadays pretend that there is any  vaccine which is protective, or prophylactic. !bacts have been too much for that doctrine, which, in consequence, b somewhat stale. Dr. Gayton'a name has been a good deal used of late by Dr. Car- penter, yet I)r. Gayton in his 1878 Report said, "I presume no one is prepared to state that primary vaccination is an absolute protection for life from smallpox.'' Still to the mind of the Registrar-General . there is a '^ protective influence," although no doubt, like Dr. Ballard, if he attempted any analysis, he would be compelled to call it a mystery.  The forty-third annual report is not an unpleasant one. The conditions of existence as exhibited in its pages, were not so bad by any means as have been exhibited in the pages of previous reports. The death-rate of England and Wales for 1880 was 20'5, with the exception of 1877, the lowest rate since registration began. It shows a gain of exactly 5 per thousand when compared with that of the four years 1847 to 18o0, as regards the " urban " districts.  This great saving of life comes entirely from the older portions of the community, and if we institute comparison with the previous year, with the exception of the ages under 10, every 5-year rate upwards is considerably less than 1870. On p. xvii. we read, " The mortality of children was m excess, while that of persons above the age of childhood was below the average, and to sucn an extent as largely to overbalance the increased mortality of children." The proportion of deaths in the first year of life to a thousand births was 153, against 145 for the five preceding years. The year 1880 has, therefore, been peculiarly favourable for adult life, but causes below the surface were at work prejudicially influencing young life. The year would have been most favourable but for the great loss of the younger years, which partly covers up the gain.  If, for explanation, we turn to the births, we shall And no cause there for excessive mortality among children. For instead of finding an excessive birth-rate, it appears that the birth-rate was almost as unusually low as the general death- rate. The causes must lie elsewhere. We are not concerned to point them out, nor are we disposed quietly to pass them by, as due to diarrhoea   and measles, as does the report. Both these diseases have causes, and that explanation does little to help us. What we are concerned with, however, is the aim of the writer of the report to show a gain in the deaths from smallpox. This gain he works at in a variety of tables, threshing the thin(j again and again to produce some gain. And all ne does produce is this, that this gain in smallpox is entirely obtained from the years of childhood. The year, be it remembered, shows great national improvement in all but the young, years. All others have yielded an improvement, out in the years under ten, there is nothing but loss. Yet all this can be passed over in a sentence or two, and for pages our national instructor can see nothing better to occupy his pen than a foolish endeavour to show a gain in smallpox. What sort of a gain must it be that Is wholly unable to show itself in the total? That which is plain as noonday to ordinary people, but which the people's Registrar will not see, is, that there can be no actual g(dn if, on the whole, you are losing. A small ^ain from smallpox is trumpeted as a triumpn for vaccine; but we are losing vastly more than we gain from smallpox, somehow or other, and if it should turn out after all, that diseasing with pestilent sores every fair child born into the land is the cause of this greater loss, where then is your savin?? The public finances thus conducted, Mr. Gladstone would only need to show a gain in the department of the Post- office to convince the House of Commons that there was no need for taxation.  And by what curious methods this assumed gain from smallpox is made out I We are informed with all the coolness of the professional being known to markets, fairs, and such places of resort, that " before vaccination came into use, few persons escaped having smallpox at some time or other of their lives. The majority had it when young, and of these a large proportion died."  '^Few persons escaped having smallpox, and the majority of them had it when joung." Further to colour up a picture not yet m sutli- cient glow, " a large proportion died." Will the Registrar-General be good enough to inform us if those communities of the pre-vaccine period came into being agedP What was young? And at what ages were they graciously permitted to pass smallpox? Certainly the people of the land multiplied ; as certainly they did not in a laTge proportion die young of smallpox, or anything else, unless the country was miraculously fed with human beings rained down upon it fully grown. This bit of fable stuffed into the Forty-third Annual Report of the Kegistrar^Oeneral is mis^ leading and inaccurate.  If this public servant had done his duty, he would have said no such thing as that few persons escaped smal!-pox, either young or at any age; still less would he have dared to say that, when attacked, a large proportion died. The very worst that can be said is, that in London, which has always been exceptional in respect of smallpox, as it is in this very year 1880, or which town and year the report speaks of " the evil pre-eminence of the metropolis," the very worst that can be said is, that before doctors drove Londoners to I hayo the smallpox, as they now drive them to cow- Sox, in the worst years, one-sixth of the London eaths were from smallpox. And it was not vaccination which altered this, but sanitation. The proof of that is, that while you have only reduced London smallpox, you have actually banished from the list of diseases the worst that they were then afflicted with. Dr. Farr says: ** The plague has never vbited London in an epidemic form since 1606." Why not? Was it because of vaccination? Will any sane man pretend, then, that if such things vanished unaided by any quackery like vaccine, smallpox declined because of vaccine, and not from the same causes which banished the plague? If he does, he must do so in spite of facts, for smallpox began its decline before vaccination ''came into use."  And it has not gone after all I There is not a single year since registration began in which smallpox has not claimed its victims. In the whole registration period, 1838 to 1880, there have never been so many smallpox deaths in a single year as in the year 1871, and next to it, 1872. In the face of such facts, all averaging of smallpox deaths is utterly delusive. The one thing noticeable about this disease, against which we possess a charm whose adoption or acceptance is forced upon us, is its persistence in the epidemic peculiarity. It comes and goes mysteriously, as always, in epidemic form, r^o manner, or kind, or degree of acceptance, or enforcement, or practice of vaccination is of any avail against this tendency. And now the prophets of vaccine all confess that we cannot keep smallpox at bay, except when it is not epidemic, which is very like the bravery of the braggart, who is able to van- quish everybody, but never can be made to fight. They can, and do, always predict their absolute triumph when smallpox declines. All these predictions up to the present have been falsified by facts ; and there is no reason for supposing the present predictions that the smallpox is banished, for the second time, from Scotland are more accurate. The disease baffles all calculation ; but as regards London, it is seldom absent long.  At any rate, table " 52 ^' shows conclusively the utter folly of trusting to vaccination. There you have " twenty large towns" all pretty equally well vaccinated, yet the only town showing smallpox deaths every year is London, certainly by no means the least vaccinated. In Leicester, perhaps the least vaccinated in the list, only three  smallpox  deaths occurred since 1872, in Nottinffham only one, in Sunderland only two, and in New- castle-on-Tyne but six. And in London, in the same period, every year has had its quota, and there have been in all something short of six thousand smallpox deaths.  The object of the writer of the pages of the report on vaccination and smallpox appears to be not to clear, but to muddle his subject. He cannot tell a plain story. All sorts of assumptions are allowed. We have been told in the columns of previous reports from the same bureau, which among those operated on by the  Eublic vaccinators should, and which should not, e called vaccinated. Here we are told to assume that the vaccinated are nineteen times as nume- rous as the unvaccinated, not a jot of evidence   being offered to prove it. And at the same time anotner bureau, paid for also by the people for the collection of sound information, shows that the vaccinated cannot very well be more thab six times as numerous as the unvaccinated.  But though we have been told of the " protective influence of vaccination,'' official priggishness cannot escape the fact that vaccinated persons take smedl-pox and die of it. We are informed that there was less smallpox from 1872 to 1880 than in the previous years since 1847; and we are asked to be sufficiently obliging to believe that the diminution was due to the fact that the later period was more vaccinated. It may be that this IS correctly stated, only it is a curious fact that I read in the Local Government Board's returns and year by year it is repeated to prevent my forgetting it - that the largest number of  vaccinations performed by the public vaccinators in any one year since 1852 was in 1864, when nearly 9 per cent, more than the entire number of the births were vaccinated by them. W^ith that startiing exception the years run very much together in the number of vaccinations, and from 1871 to the present time they have not very materially altered. If we could add private vaccinations to the earlier years, it is probable the difference would be even less marked than it is. Yet in spite of this we are asked to add to our previous credulities this one more, that the period 1847 to 1880 " naturally divides itself " as follows : -  1847 to 1853, seven years.  1854 to 1871, seventeen years.  1872 to 1880, nine years.  To our thinking, nature may sometimes be improved upon, and, on the whole, we think if this is nature's division, that we may even improve upon it here. For the strongly-marked boundary between compulsion and coercion was the year 1867. The " principal " Vaccination Act is the Act of 1867. Under its provisions more tyranny has been effected than was ever dreamed of before. Chesterfield, Margato, Hamsgate, Chatham, An- dover, Ludlow, and other places can tell our masters of Somerset House what the change was which the Act of 1867 wrought. It was Reho- boam's threat carried into fact. The prior Act chastised with whips, this with scorpions. Fathers went to jail under it, leaving poverty and distress to conquer the home. Mothers went to jail under it, leaving the vile instruments of this coercion to carry their children to the workhouse. What had been a dread became a terror.  And what is it all aboutthis natural division? It is made because, thus stated, a percentage diminution can be produced on paper.  Let us, however, take our unnatural division into two equal halves. Let 1853 to 1866 be one half, and 1867 to 1880 be the other. Then we should have two equal periods of 14 years each. We shall find that in the former period the deaths from all causes exceed the latter period ; but we, shall, I think, also find that the period of compul- sion has a smaller number of deaths per million from smallpox, than the period of coercion from 1867 to 1880. Am I justified in saying that our teachers do not appear able to tell a plain story? I think I am. And if only the people were wise - the people who pay the salaries of the Somerset   .   59   House officials - they would assume their proper position as masters, and banish the rite, with Its defenders, from the list of superstitions sup- ported by the State. Albx. Whbrleb.   LETTERS ADDRESSED TO THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE LONDON SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF COMPULSORY VACCINATION.  Fbom Dr OidtmanNi of Linnich.  HONOXTRBD BbETHBEN IN ArMS !  While you in England, and we in Germanyi are preparing for a third International Congress, to be held in Berlin in the autumn of 1882, the national work - the national strife which in each country the opponents of Vaccination have to carry on - ^must not be allowed to stand still. In En^landyin Germany, and in free Switzerland, the national standard must be planted side by side with the international one. In the English Parliament, Mr. P. A. Taylor unfurls the nag of the opponents of compulsory vaccination ; in Switzerland, the people more than double the signatures necessary to suspend the oppressive law ; and in France and Belgium even the Academies of Medicine are losing heart and shrink from the recommendation of fresh measures of enforcement.  When, however, we compare the methods of warfare against vaccination in England and Germany, we perceive an essential difference. You attack the compulsory law in Parliament, while we, in the Reichstag, endeavour to overthrow the principle - the very foundation of the law. You regard the law itself as the heel of Achilles, while we discern the vulnerable spot in the science on which the law is based.  By statistical research we have proved the ground of the law to be rotten ; and we are certain of victory because no statistics with an opposite effect can be brought against us. In our researches as to the basis of the German vaccination law, we have made an important discovery ; namely, that the basis is identical with that of your English law, and the discovery facilitates our common victory.  In Germany, the vaccination law is founded upon an official Recommendation of February 28, 1872, obtained from the Royal Scientific Commisrion of Medicine, the highest deliberative medical body in Prussia. Now this Royal Commission, instead of instituting an original inquiry and testing the traditional belief in the blessings of vaccination, made their duty easy by simply ordering certain books from England - namely, '' Report from the Select Committee on the Vaccination Act " (1867). Ordered by the House of Commons to be printed, 1871.  '' Papers relating to the History and Practice of Vaccination." Presented to both Houses of Parliament. London: 1857.  These books were translated in a mechanical manner for the Commission, and so carelessly that, in a quotation from a last century authority the word inoculation was rendered Vaccination, and the matter in question reduced to absurdity -one instance among many of the perfunctory   performance of the translator's task. In short the German Report was no more than an inferior reproduction of certain English official matter, to which the members of the German Commis- sion, all eminent sdentific men, and recognised as authorities, affixed their signatures in mind credulity; thus committing the German nation to enforced vaccination, and by force of German example, other European peoples, and even influencing America.  The law-makers in the Reichstag naturally thought that the ground-work of the proposed vaccination law had been thoroughly considered and verified ; and, acting on this conviction, they imposed over the whole of Germany a law more terrible than any enacted since the middle ages, a law that set at naught the clearest convictions of knowled^ and consdence. The members of the Commission did not even hint that they made no pretence to original inquiry, and though scarcely credible in a matter of such vital importance, they committed themselves to the following declaration : -  " Taking all these facta into consideration in forming a judgment as to the efficacy of  vaccination, we give in our adherence to the excellent English Bine Book, which has in the most cogent manner answered every objection. The English Committee, which has been engaged for years in the' most carefnl examination of the snbject, declares (in unison with the almost nnanimona opinion of medical science and authority in all civilised countries) that Cowpox affords, if not an absolute, yet a great protection from small Fox, and an almost universal protection from death by smallPox. . . . Hence the State is bound to take measures for the careful vaccination of the entire community."  Gentiemen, you can now understand how these English documents are the lowest cards, on which international house of cards the doctrine and legislation of Compulsory Vaccination is builded. If we can succeed in withdrawing the foundation cards, the whole fabric will collapse, and the miracle of vaccination be no more credited.  Here, then, is the reason why in the German Parliament and press we concentrate our attack upon the Recommendation of the Ro^al Medical Commission of February 28, 1872. Discussion on that Recommendation has been avoided year after year; for, as you may easily understand, those who signed it have learnt to be ashamed of it. When I tell you that we have succeeded in refuting, sentence by sentence, the German version of the English evidence, you will see how the days of the German vaccination laws are numbered. We have shown that the premisses are fallacious, and if not absolutely untrue, the condusions drawn from them are untenable. Strange to say, a large part of the English evidence used to control German legislation consists of German and Swedish statistics, which are known to be unsound, forming a complete circle of illusions and deceptions. The matter of these statistics was accepted as unquestionable and authoritative, and incorporated into the body of science, and used veithout hesitation for proof of the reidity of the vaccination miracle. A later and more enUghtened age will find it difficult to understand how whole nations have rested content for so many decades under the delusion, and even yet tolemte it.  In the solidarity of our work in Germany and England, you should endeavour to gain members for your Society among the Germans resident in London, and maintain through them a constant transfer of information between the countries. Thus should our International League profit by your Society.  F. H. OlDTMANN.  Linuichy May 1, 1832.   FnoM Dr J. Emeby CoDEnnE.  Professor of Materia Medica in Montreal University.  Vaccination never had any other aim than that of enabling its promoters to practise a vulgar empiricism on a large scale, by an imposing assumption of oracular knowledge.  Just lately, in Ike month of February, Dr. Bissey, the cultivator of animal vaccine, has vaccinated two infants, one eighteen months old, the other three or four months. The latter died about a week after the operation, of erysipelns in the arm, and the other had a very narrow escape.  In Upper Canada, in the Western Territory, and in Manitoba, smallpox has made great ravages, in spite of vaccination.  A Catholic missionary tells me that among the Indian tribes of the west, where smallpox causes so much terror, the Government provided lymph and ordered vaccination. It was soon noticed that smallpox increased all the faster. They were, therefore, compelled to refrain from vaccinating ; when, naturally enough, the smallpox diminished. Wherever the effects of vaccination have been fairly observed, they have been found to be worse than useless.  In my opinion a Government which permits legislation to impose on its subjects a practice founded on uncertainty, and whose results are generally mischievous, cares very little for the national interests. Is unworthy of the name, and ought to be driven from power.  Let me recal to your mind the energetic resistance of Montreal in 1875, when the municipality attempted to force vaccination upon the citizens. The Town-hall was instantly crowded with indig- nant freemen, in numbers sufficient to make their rights respected, and had not the Council with- drawn the measure the promoters would have run the gauntlet of danger.  No one ought to be permitted to violate the sacred rights of the family with impunity. Vaccination savours of barbarism, and if it could not be done without trespassing upon personal freedom the practice ought to be abolished. And if it be permissible to refuse medical aid to the sick whenever we please, ought it not to be more decidedly permissible to reject the visits of the officerof health to a person in full health? Governments can and ought to occupy themselves with measures of hygiene, but they ought not to impose by force a medical prescription, especially in cases where the state of health requires none.  J. Emeby Codebbe. Montreal, Apiil 24, 1882.   THE POOR OF PARIS.  The Paris correspondent of the Weekly Dispateh \h distinguished for singular good sense, and not least 80 m what concerns the public hetdth. In his letter in the Dispatch of June 4, having described the wretched lodgings in which the poor of Paris reside, windows and doors being taxed accDrding to their number and size, he says that M. Jules Simon, having made a tour of inspection in certain quarters, had the precaution to go to an hospital to be disinfected before he returned home : -  " In the course of his round he wondered why it was that landlords, who often reside near the dens from which some of them dorivo large incomes, were not in terror of the smallpox which haunts them. The reply given is worth recording : - ' Everyone who is now at all well off is vaccinated, and, therefore, not apprehensive of smallpox.' I am afraid that Jenner has to answer for a deal of the evil which has survived a scientific knowledge of the laws of health. The world would be much fairer, sweeter, and healthier than it is were it not for the false hope in him, which is an impediment to efficient sanitation. If peoples, and the legislators whom they elect, had in their heads the idea that individual selfishness should not be allowed to stand in the way of the general weal, smallpox would, I believe, soon die out of itself, or from time to time come only to warn ns mildly that we must be just, sociable, and on the alert to defend the poor and ignorant from wealthy vultures who, in spoiling them, turn them into a national virus. I told you how in the summer of 1880 I went about looking for a garret in which lived a poor blind person, and what sights I saw in my hunt after one who would be healthy if he could. My search was a discouraging one. While I was pursuing it I often wondered that the people have any virtue left in them, instead of a great deal. In the best quarters of the city the quantity of suffering humanity which is miserably housed under the slates on sixth storeys is appalling. What saves the working classes in Paris are the facilities for open-air enjoyment and the beauty and democratic character of the parks and public gardens."   Exactly What We Think. - There is no calling in which there is a greater affectation of integrity than in the medical, and there is none in which oblique quackery is more practised. - Medical Press, May 31, 1882.  De. Peabce's Vital Statistics. - In the Graphic of June 24, there is a notice of this important work, wherein we read : - " Dr. 0. T. Pearce is anxious to take Jenner down from his pedestal, and the facts tabtilated in his Vital Statistics as to smallpox and vaccination in the United Kingdom and Continental countries and cities are sufficiently startling to give emphasis to his call for a Boyal Commission of Inquiry. Sweden, for instance, is the best- vaccinated country in Europe ; yet instead of smallpox being well-nigh stamped out, small poz epidemics are much more fatal in Stockholm, than in London or Liverpool. One is puzzled to understand why, during the outbreak of 1871, the mortality of Frankfort should have been not much more than half that in London, while in Hamburg it was more than ten times as heavy as in the other great Hanse to¥ms. It will be news to many that inoculation largely increased the deaths from smallpox."   THE VACCINAODION INQTJIRER.   61   FROM PROFESSOR WILDER, M.D.  In the Vaccination Inquibeb for May there is a paper of mine wherein it is said, " There is now an epidemic of smallpox in the United States."  I wish to retract that statement. There has not heen, properly speaking, an epidemic of small  SDZ, but a vaccination epidemic. In a few places ke Chicago, Pittsburg, &c., there were outbreaks of Tariola ; and what was noteworthy, the ync- cinated had the disease as much or more in proportion than those who had not been vaccinated. There was some talk about inert virus. Having proclaimed an epidemic, the National Board of Health secured an appropriation of £20,000. The Associated Press, which controls the newspnpers, carefully published every case of smallpox, with many that were non-existent. Our doctors can equal yours any day for " tall lying," petty artifice, and brutal imperiousnpss.  smallpox has not really been epidemic. I have carefully scrutinised the mortuary reports, and observe that the disease has been about as prevalent as typhus. It is as prevalent today in New York as during the scare; the mortality being about the same - twenty a week.  The vaccinated immigrants from Europe have been compelled to be re-vaccinated, and the disease-mongering fraternity have " made a good thing of it ; " but that is all.  There is, however, and has been all winter a deadly epidemic of scarlatina. The morUility has been some five or six times that of smallpox, and even ran up at times to ten or twelve fold. Measles should also be added to the category. Diphtheria has slain about three times as many as smallpox. These three diseases have demanded attention and have not received it. Neither press nor telegrapli uttered the fact that our children were and are perishing by hecatombs of scarlet fever, measles, and diphtheria ; yet it 18 the fact, and our self-styled scientific physicians are utterly impotent in presence of the aesolation.  The imbecility of our medical men is as patent as their untruthfulness.  After all, a statute enforcing vaccination on school children was smuggled through the Legislature of Connecticut. The opposition was lulled into the belief that the project had been aban- doned, and in a dark hour the iniquity was consummated by enactment.  The Civil War in America has had the effect of weakening our jealous regard for personal rights. Legislation* of an arbitrary character that was not possible twenty years ago, is now tamely endured or passed with acclamation.  In every State Legislature there is now a Doctors' lobby, like a cluster of carrion flies. Their pretext is that the people require protection from quackery. The truth is, the people are apathetic, whilst so-called physicians are hungrier than Pharaoh's seven lean kine. They cannot earn their living in the open market by medicine, and instead contrive to create for themselves public offices with salaries.  Our medical societies are fast becoming gangs of spies and informers ; and America was never 80 committed to paternal despotism since the century began as at the present time.  Alexandeb Wildeb.  New York, May 18, 1882,   FROM DR. E. M. RIPLEY.  I AM an anti-vaccinator out and out, and in entire sympathy with you and all others who are trying to suppress the pernicious practice. As a physician I am constantly meeting cases of grave disease in various forms, directly traceable to vaccination. I have a case of epilepsy in a beautiful girl of six years, who up to four months ago was in perfect health. She was then vaccinated by a reputable and skilful surgeon with " pure bovine virus " ; and with the working of the poison came the dread disease that causes the parents' heart to ache, with an added pang in view of their ignorance and folly - a blameless ignorance, but the result of a broken law, alas I the same.  Anti-vaccination sentiment is rapidly growing in this State. I am personally acquainted with several physicians who positively refuse to vaccinate, and with others who only do it under protest. I voccinated for four years after beginning practice, but becoming alarmed at the results, particularly in my own family, I renounced the operation, not knowing at the time titat there was any opposition to it. I have been a conscientious student of vaccination, both for and flgflinf>t, and my convictions are based upon a theoretical and practical knowledge of its inefficiency as a preventive of smallpox, and of the manifold evils it produces as an animal poison. Vaccination is corrupting the blood of our whole nation, and to it may be traced an aggravation of all our ills and a largely-increased mortality.  E. M. Ripley, M.D.  XJnionville, Connecticut May, 29, 1882.   FROM THE REV. ROBERT COLLYER.  Among American preachers of the first rank is the Rev. Robert Collyer, of New York, formerly of Chicago. Knowing his active sympathy with all efforts for human welfare, Mr. Tebb wrote to him, setting forth the principles and necessity of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination, and soliciting his name and influence in its favour. Here is Mr. Collyer's reply : -  " 137, East 39th Street,  " New York, Mai/ 8> IS^^- " Deah Sin, - You may put my name down, and welcome, as a member of your Society. I shall be glad to stand shoulder to shoulder in the fight you propose to mnke. I think, as you do, that it is time to cry Halt ! and Hands off I on both sides of the water. - Yours indeed,  " To William Tebb. " Robeiit Collyeii."   Process of Finding Out.- Cases of fever, at- tended with pustular eruptions, sacceeding  vaccinations, are now become so common in London [1820] that they have probably been witnessed by every practitioner ; yet few, perhaps, would like to hazard a decisive opinion regarding the precise nature of the disease. The world in general are ready enough to believe that it is the smallpox ; and many cir- cumstanoes concur to g^ve countenance to the sup- position. - London Medical Repository , March, 1820, p. 216. DEVELOPING MEDICAL DESPOTISM.  I VENTUBE to ask leave to call the attention of aDti-vaccinators and others to the grave dangers to which our rights of conscience and our personal liherties are now exposed, in consequence of the extravagant pretensions of a certain section of the medical profession, who are sedulously striving after the gradual estahUshment and endowment of a " State medicine/' and the enforcement of a sjstem by means of which the State medical officials shall be practically in dge, jury, gaoler, and executioner to any one of us, with regard to all questions of disease and the treatment of disease.  Following in the evil course initiated by the Public Health Act, 1868, the Public Health Act of 1872 made compulsory upon every local sanitary authority the appointment of a medical officer of health, being a legally qualified medical practitioner, who is nominally an officer of the local authority, but when any portion of his salary is paid " out of moneys voted by Parliament," is practically an officer of the central executive, and under the control of the Local Government Board. Already, the inevitable tendency of centralisation to despotism has made itself manifest in the efforts of many of these officials to induce the Local Government Board to initiate legislation which should have the effect of making their appointments permanent (instead of for a period of five years only), and of rendering themselves, their duties, and functions altogether independent of the local sanitary authorities.  Local authorities, thanks to our stupid political system, which introduces the element of political partisanship everywhere, have never yet been elected with any view to the fitness of their members to deal with questions of sanitation, and in consequence of this stupidity, the medical officer of health is, even now, the master of the situation. How in a large number of cases, these persons abuse their authority and influence may be seen from the shameful examples of Private Bill legislation recently exposed oy the Vigilance Association for the Defence of Personal Bights.  By means of such legislation, local authorities, blindly acting under the inspiration of their medical officers, have sought and obtained powers of the most extravagant and monstrous kind over the lives and personal liberties of the persons whose interests they were elected to protect, and these powers are to be exercised by these modem inquisitors, our medical despots, at their own discretion.  Already, in many of our large towns and cities, it is a legal offence on the part of the medical attendant, householder, nurse, or sick person himself, to fail to notify to the local sanitary authority any case of infectious disease, and the notification once made, it is at the discretion of the medical officer of health himself, whether he will or will not intrude, either personally, or by his myrmidons, into the sick chamber, interfere in the most irritating and insolent manner with every domestic arrangement, and, in virtue of an order to be obtained by the medical officer from any justice, compel the removal to, and detention m, hospital of any person who, in his indi- |   vidual opinion, is not suffidentl^ isolated. One such despot contended, in opposition to the opinion of the medical practitioner m charge of the case, that a child, alone with its mother and a nurse, in a seven-roomed house, was not adequately isolated, and ought to have been removed to hospital.  How largely such powers are expected and intended to be used may be judged from the fact that it has been thought necessarv to introduce into the Municipal Corporations Bill, now passing through Parliament (see section 32, sub-section 4, a), the provision that a person shall not be disentitled to be enrolled as a burgess because he " has been removed, hy order of a justice, to a hospital or place for reception of the sick, at the COST of any local authority;" the local authorities having, however, carefully taken powers to recover the cost of this compulsory removal and compulsory treatment from any person who is anvhow able to pay. (It may be recovered as a debt, by distraint, ftc.)  Our medical dictators, not satisfied with even this, are attempting to obtain legal powers in virtue of which a local authority, a Town Council for example, may by resolution, on the report of their medical officer of health, declare any disease not already declared so, an infectious disease, for the purpose of the exercise of all these powers of compulsion, and they are at this moment actively promoting BiUs in Parliament for the extension of this outrageous tyranny over every part of the land. Our Town Councils and other local authorities are busily petitioning Parliament in support of the Compulsory Notification of Infectious Diseases Bill, and it goes without saying that the medical officers of health are the wire-pullers in these instances.  Anti-vAOcinators know better than most people the infinite toil, expense, and trouble which it costs to get rid of a bad and unjust law once imposed, however lightly and i^orantly it may have been considered by our legislators. It is to them, therefore, more than to any other persons, that I appeal for help to resist more and more wicked and mischievous legislation of a similar character. It cannot be too widely known that when lec^lation of this kind has been once foisted upon a district by means of a Private Bill (or by means of an Act confirming a provisional order of the Local Government Boaro), even though it may have been done surreptitiously, without the knowledge or consent of the ratepayers given in public meeting, as required by the IBorough Funds Act, such a measure can only be got rid of by a long, costly, and laborious agitation for its repeal.  Kesistance to the first step is what is needed, and what would commonly be successful. I do, therefore, most earnestly beg all anti-vaccinators to consider these closely-related questions, involving the self -same principles which lie at the root of their own agitation for the repeal of the hateful compulsory vaccination laws. I ask those in each district to watch closely the proceedings of their Town Council or other local sanitary authority, and not to permit any private Bill to be promoted without the knowledge and intelli- gent consent of the ratepayers, expressed as the law (which these authonties constantly dlsobev, and which they are now endeavouring to get nd   TH£ VACCINATION INQUIRER   63   of altogether) requires by formal resolution at a public meeting; not to permit any provisional order to be applied for by their local aiiministra- tors without its provisions being submitted to the consideration of and approved by those who are to be affected by it ; and, finally, not to permit petitions in favour of the mischievous notifi- cation of Infectious Diseases Bills now before Parliament, to be adopted by these local authorities witheut consideration or discussion. It would be a pitiful thing if, in other towns where anti-vaccinators have half-won their special battle, they should, as has unfortunately been the case in Leicester, find themselves the victims of a fresh set of tyrannical measures, of which they had no knowledge, and to which they never gave their consent. A supreme effort is needed at this juncture, not merely to hold fast by our existing liberties, but to carry the war into the enemy's camp, to recover whatever has been lost during the past few years, - to undo all that has been done by the insidious encroachments of a State medical department, and to put an end, once for all, to the outrageous pretensions of this medical priestcraft, which seeks to destroy our liberties, te trample down conscience and affection, and to establish the most galling and oppressive interference with every detail of our lives.  E. C. W. Elmy.*   With What We Strive. - You are not fighting against medical conviction, but against money. So long as a man can get grants of £G0, £80, and £120 for good vaccination, it is more than human nature can tolerate to cry down the vaccination policy. It was madness for Parliament to grant a penny for any process the effects of which were questionable. The people will find themselves hampered until there is free-trade in physic. - M. D. These remarks are from the letter of a well-known physician in the West of England.  Twknty-one Tears After. - ^Ifc is a very certain, though a very melancholy fact, that smallpox is now prevailing to a greater or less degree in every part of this island, twenty-one years after the promulgation of the great discovery of Jenner. The extent to which it has prevailed in London during the last summer [that of 1819] has been truly alarming, and we fear that its mortality has been proportionally great. The prospect, theref(M:e, of exterminating the smallpox, so fondly indulged by some in the pure spirit of benevolence, and cherished by others as an excuse for neglecting the study of variola and .varioloid diseases, appears, if we may rely upon our own opportunities of observation, to be as far distant as ever. With all our gpood wishes, we yet cannot conceal our suspicion that this hope is visionary, and that the smallpox will still continue to show itself occasionally among others of the "painful family of death,'' and that its study is still an indispensable part of medical education. - London Medical Repository, February, 1820, p. 131.  * List of local B"Ditar^ authorities who had, up to May 13, petitioned Parliament in favour of the Infections Diseases Kotiflcation Bill . - Lord Prorost, Magistrates, and Council of Edinbnrffh ; Yestnr of St. George, Hanorer^square, and Vestrv' of the Parish of Chelsea ; Rural Sanitary Authority of the l>roitwich Union; Mayor, Aldennan, and Burgesses of Aoczington, AndoTer, Bootle-cnm-Linacre, Burslem, Canterbury, Corentry, Darlington, Dewsburr, Dover, Huddersfleld, King's Lynn, Linooln, Maidstone, ICddlesbrough, Newport (Mons.),'Bocnda]e, Swansea, Walsall, and Wisbeach.   NOTES BY A TRAVELLER.  About two years ago, having occasion, on account of health and for other reasons, to go about a good deal, and to hear much concerning tho injury, cruelty, and injustice arising out of the operations of the Vaccination Acts, I began to jot down what I heard, thinking the facts elicited in conversation and unobtrusively mentioned by the suffering people might be useful to awaken public attention to the gravity of the subject. A short experience convinced me that to continue these notes was impossible. Many of the narratives were long, and harrowing in their details, and the cases were so numerous that all my time, to tho exclusion of other - to me more important matters - would be occupied in the mere writing. The scheme was therefore abandoned. It has occurred to me, how- ever, quite recently, that though I could not find leisure to describe all I heard, I might, notwith- standing, occasionally send you the particulars of one or two interviews, until some more graphic pen should, in the public interest, take up the matter, which I feel sure will be done at no distant date. With your permission, therefore, I will send you a few occasional jottings to fill a comer of tho Vaccination iNquiREB, when nothing mora instructive is offered. The peculiarity of such recitals is, that for the most part they emanate from sufferers outside the anti-vaccination camp (who thus far have occupied nearly all the space at your disposal) - in short, from that considerable, but unrepresented, class who submit to vaccination because it is the law, and believe that, however unjust a law may be, it ought to be obeyed, otherwise, they say, society could not hold together.  A Tbavelleb.  Being at a county town the other day; having travelled thither on the top of Mr. Shoolbred's well-appointed coach, The Neto Times, throagh stretches of some of the most delightful scenery in Surrey, I stepped into a small stationer's shop, just off the Iiigh Street, and inquired of the shop-keeper - a venerable lady of about seventy summers - if she could oblige me with the address of anyone interested in the vaccination question. Before she had time to answer, or I had opportu- nity of giving further explanation of my ODJect, a ladylike person in the shop, who was making a purchasoi accompanied by her daughter, a girl of twelve or thirteen years of age, said in an em- phatic tone of voice, mingled with a degree of personal feeling amounting almost to indignation, *^ Vaccination I I have no patience with it, and wish it was made an end of." The lady evidently took me to be either a public vaccinator, or a doctor anxious to propagate the popular system. After I had undeceived her, and told her that I fully shared in her objections, she pointed to her daughter, and said, " That child has always been suffering from some sore or abscess," which she, rightly or wrongly, attributed to vaccination. She was gratified to hear that a society existed to agitate for the repeal of the law, and dadly offered to distribute some literature which I gave her, amongst her friends and neighbours.  A bookseller in the same town, of whom I made a similar inquiry, said, " Do you mean those who are in favour, or those who are against itP" I said, " Against it." Then he said, " I am against, and always have been ; and I think most people are against it, and woidd be glad to get   64   THt: VACCINATION llJQttlRfitt.   rid of it.^ A bookseller in the High-etreet said he had had nine children, eight of whom had been Tnccinated, and he had seen the evil of it ; but he added, " I have my living to ^et, and cannot take any active steps to oppose it, and it virould not answer to do so. In this town, the doctors, lawyers, and bankers all hnng together, and the people quietly submit. I am now concerned about a child that has to be vaccinated, having already had one injured by the operation. I will read your literature with pleasure, and then lend it to others."  Walking through the streets of a large town in Yorkshire with an old resident who, in his youth, had studied medicine - though not a medical practitioner - my companion said he had recently been consulted in a most distressing case. A friend of his had a son at a well-known school on the continent, and there, as here, vaccination is held to be one of the concomitants of a careful education, and all the boys were required to accept the prescription. The youth wrote to his father for advice, and the father having heard of cases of injury through what is called "bad matter,'' wrote to the head master requesting that the operation might be postponed, and promising to have it done under his own immediate supervision at the earliest opportunity. The boy came home during the vacation, and the father consulted a physician, who sent for and obtained a (supply of *' genuine calf lymph " from a reputable establishment abroad. The youth was duly vaccinated with the imported virus, and the father's horror may be imagined when, a few weeks afterwards, he discovered that his eon was infected with vaccino-syphilis ! and the case is so bad, said the father, that " as he sits with me at dinner, I cnnnot bear to look at him.*' My interlocutor faid, " if that boy had been mine, I would have shot the vaccinator."   DEATHS FROM ERYSIPELAS FOLLOWING VACCINATION AND CHICKEN-POX.  The Registrar-General, in his Forty-third Annual Report, records, pp. 148-49, that in 1880 thirty- nine deaths were caused by vaccinal-erysipelas, of which thirty-two were under one year of age.  Two deaths are also attributed to cowpox. As both occurred in infants, who would hardly be likely to contract the disease from handling diseased cows, it would have been both more candid and in accord with fact to have recorded their deaths as resulting from the artificially- indaced cowpox - Vaccination.  Wo also note with much surprise in the same report that no less than 103 deaths, 60 being of children under one year, are ascribed to chickenpox ! As the highest authorities we have been able to consult are unanimous in regarding this exanthem as a trivial febrile affection, scarcely demanding medical attention, we feel constrained to ask whether this is not another specimen of the devices resorted to by the profession to " preserve vaccination from reproach."  Our opinion is either that these 103 cases represent so many cases of post-vaccinal smallpox, or that chicken-pox, like smallpox, according to Dr. Carpenter, has suddenly assumed a ** malignant type " unknown to our forefathers. - W. Y.   INSURANCE AGAINST VACCINATION.  COMMTTNICATIONS ON THE PhOJECT.  The proposal of St. George to form a league for insurance against vaccination seems to me most admirable. It would extend and encourage resistance to the evil law ; and we should all feel free to advise parents to make the necessary sacrifice for the good of their offspring. At present we entertain a certain hesitation in urging poor folk to enter on a course that may involve them in difficulties for which they may not be whoUy prepared. It is otherwise when a man's mind is thoroughly made up. Then the unwavering counsel is, Stand firm, and suffer anything rather than yield.  I question, however, the wisdom of forming a special league for the purpose. We have too many organisations. It would be far better for the London Society to offer to insure its members against vaccination, undertaking to conduct their defence, when defence is advisable, and to pay their fines. Let the Committee fix a subscription sufficient to cover costs, and then we shall proceed to look up recruits, saying, Join the Society, and then you may laugh at the vaccination officer. As St. George observes, we should then bring on battle in earnest. The stronghold of vaccination only requires to be attacked as Qaribaldi attacked the Neapolitan despotism for it to go down with a crash. It is not nearly so strong as it looks. There is an immensity of latent sympathy in the masses which can only be evoked if appealed to in active dramatic fashion. Mere reasoning, however able, is of little avail. It does not touch hearts, nor generate fire. Englishmen wake up and show themselves enthusiastic and liberal when they see fighting going on ; and what we anti-vaccinators have to do is to declare open war ; and for war to be successful, it is necessary to fight shoulder to shoulder. It is sickening, and it is disgraceful to us, to witness our comrades in conviction attacked and punished in detail. Let us, as rational, faithful, and loving men, make the cause of each the cause of all ; and if only the London Society will provide generalship and organisatipn, we shall soon find ourselves on the way to success. - Laubie Roy.  In a society such as that contemplated for meeting the costs of members prosecuted in default of vaccination the subscription should be weekly, so that the poor may share its advantages. I had thought of a scheme similar to that of St. George, and I hope the readers of the Ix- quiheb will give the project their earnest consideration. - H. J. Adahs.  I think the project of a Parents' Protection League for insurance against vaccination a most sensible one, and worthy of the support of every anti-vaccinator ; and if put into execution I will do what little is in my power to encourage it by subscribing annually the sum of £6, - D. Behner.  Mr. William Tebb also agrees to subscribe £5 annually for the same purpose.   An article of more than usual excellence in sup- port of Mr. P. A. Taylor's Bill for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination appeared in tho National Reformer of June 11.      65   smallPOX IN THE WEST INDIES.  In the number of Enowlbdob for June 2 we are told : -  " The ontbreak of smallpox now raging in the island of Hayti affords direct and positive evidence of the terrible nature of a visitation of smallpox on a population entirely (or nearly so) unprotected by Taccination."  Mr. C. E Taylor^ of St. Thomas, writes of this very outbreak : -  " Hayti is filthy beyond measure. You who live in a clean city like London can form no idea of the sanitary condition of some West Indian towns."  Vaccination is carried on with great fury in the West Indies. In Knowledge^ the direct statement is avoided that Hayti is unvaccinated. For us, it is enough to learn that Hayti is filthy. Were the municipal filth and in tolerable stench of medisBval London to be introduced into our modem metropolis, or were the intensity of dirt and recklessness of the blacks of Hayti to be intro- daced into Eeighley, Leicester, or other centres of enmity to filth and vaccination, smallpox would donbtleos rage as of old. Was not the death-rate of London in 1660-70 as high as 80 in the 1,000, and did not smoll-poz supply 4 of the 80 ? At least this is what we are told on the authority of our Government officials. The instance of London proves that smallpox never works alone. Out of the 80 per 1,000, it is probable that 60 were due to zymotic diseases, such as typhus and other fevers, measles, scarlatina, croup, &c. ; and out of this 60 the  smallpox  only provided 4. We do not write to excite angry pasffions; but we must allow ourselves to ask our not very mild opponents whether the reduction of their selected smallpox era to that of today, from 80 to 20 or 24 in the 1,000, has been caused by cleanliness or by Taccination ? H. D. D.   DEFINITIONS EEQUIRED AND REFUSED.  South London Anti-Compulsorr Yacdnation Society, 64, Bagshot Street, S.E., April 25, 1882. Sir, - I am requested by the committee of this Society to ask you what is the definition of the word '* Vaccination," as understood by the various Acts ; and also for a definition of the term " reasonable excuse," contained in the 29th section of the Act of 1867 ; and, furthermore, for a definition of the term " lawful excuse," contained in your letter to the guardians of Camberwell, in the case of the guardians of Camberwell against Walter Hasker, recently heard before Mr. Ellison at the Lambeth Police Court. - Your obedient servant,  Geo. Bonk, Hon. Sec. The Bight Hon. J. G. Dodson, M.P., Fkesident of the Local Government Board.   Local Government Board, Whitehall, S.W.,  May 2, 1882.  Sib, - I am directed by the Local Government Board to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 25th ultimo, and to inform you that they cannot undertake to give you the definitions aeked for therein. - Your obedient servant,  J. Y. BoTTONi Assistant Secretary.  Mr. G. Bone.   FROM CALIFORNIA.  Oun interest in smallpox, and its twin-evil, vaccination, has been revived by the arrival at Sin Francisco of the British steamship, Altonotcer, with a cargo of Chinese coolies, about 1,200 in number. She was boarded as usual by the quarantine officer, Dr. Lawler, who found a clean bill of health. As is usual in cases of vessels from Hong Kong with coolies, he ordered the ship to be fumigated ; which order alarming the Chinese, they went below and brought on deck a Chinaman sick with confluent smallpox, which sickness was entirely unknown to the officers and crew. The ship was immediately ordered into quarantine, and since that date, about ten days ago, some seventy cases of variola and varioloid have occurred among the passengers and crew ; and new cases are reported daily. What adds interest to the matter is the fact that these Chinese were vaccinated at Hong Kong, on their departure for San Francisco, and were again vaccinated within sight of San Francisco, and, ac- cording to the Ikiard of Health, almost all of them had been inoculated with smallpox in China !  The climate of California is not friendly to smallpox, and were it not for the persistence of the doctors, vaccination would languish, and in time cease alto^ther. But the love of the almighty dollar is strong in the medical breast. We are charged as high as three dollars for vaccination with pure bovine virus, and the poor are done for fifty cents with virus that is not war- ranted. I myself paid my family physician, now Health Officer of Oakland, three aollars to vaccinate my child, and he never was well afterwards until he died, poisoned, we believe, with the virus put into his blood.  Our physicians, as a rule, are all Taccinators. Some of them have admitted to me in piivate tiiat they regard vaccination as a hazardous experiment, and never perform it without anxiety for the result. It is, however, the rule of the profession to stand together, and for no nrivate member to disparage the tenets approved by the majority. Thus, those who inwardly know they are wrong, and confess as much in confidence, yet remain silent in public, and utter no protest against the mischiefs perpetrated under the corporate authority. The bulk of the community remain indifferent. They vaccinate their children under medical advice, and fancy the sicker they are the more certain is the protection conferred. Occa- sionally, when the issues are more than usually dreadful or deadly, then suspicion and unbelief are excited, and from such experiences the oppo- sition to vaccination is continually reinforced.  WiLBKB Walker.  519, East Twelfth Street, Oakland, California, May 22, 1882.   In the TruthseeJcer for June there appeared an article entitled, " Statistics of smallpox and Vaccination in England, deduced from the Betums of the Registrar- (general/' of a remarkably full and conclusive character, which ought to be reprinted for the benefit of those who fincy that statistics prove the usefulness of vaccination.]   66      PROSECUTORS CANNOT BE JUDGES.  Judgments are continuaUy pronounced on parents refusing to submit their children to vaccination by magistrates, who, as guardians, have initiated the prosecutions. It cannot be too widely known that guardians have no right to occupy the Bench under such circumstances, and that any sentences they pronounce may be set aside as invalid. A case in point is thus reported in the Times, June 13 : -  High Court of Justice. Queen's Bench Division, before Mr. Justice Field and Mr. Justice Cave. The Queen v, Lee and another, Justices of Wakefield.  This case raised a question of frequent occurrence with reference to Local Boards - whether a member of a Board, also a magistrate, concurring in directing a prosecution under a statute, can sit at the hearing of the case. Mr. Lee was a member of the Sanitary Committee of the Town Council of Wakefield, and was present at a meeting of the committee at which it was resolved to prosecute a tradesman on a charge of exposing unwholesome meat for sale. Mr. Lee was also a magistrate, and sat on the hearing of the case, on which the tradesman was convicted and fined. The tradesman now applied to set aside the conviction on the ground that the magistrate was interested, and|that so the conviction was invalid.  The Court, after hearing Mr. Lockwood on behalf of the magistrates, said that it vras impossible to sustain the conviction, as the magistrate was legally interested, having directed the prosecution (the Town Clerk being prosecutor) ; so that he ought not to have sat at the hearing, and there was no section in the statute to enable him to do so.  Rule absolute for a certiorari.   AUTOMATIC HUMA.NITY.  Ths notion of a coming Elysium, in which we shall be wound up every morning to do wh at is right and proper the day long by the infallible action of a paternal government administered by omniscient officials in their respective Boards or hierarchies, may be found, at least in germ, in Lord Bolingbroke's essay on the "True Use of Retirement and Study." Lord Bolingbroke appeals to Lord Bathurst : -  " Would not your Lordship choose to walk upon four legs, to wear a long tail, and to be called a beast, with the advantage of being determined by irresistible and unerring instinct to those truths that are necessary to your well-doing ; rather than to walk on two legs, to wear no tail, and to be honoured with the title of man, at the expense of deviating from them continually? "  Fevess and SsfALL-Pox. - Dr. BoSns, in his tract, " La G^n^ration Spontanee," says : " In the epi- demic in the canton of Charleroi, 1879-80, the two diseases, smallpox and typhoid fever, accompanied each other, as they often do in a smallpox epidemic." In France it has long been suspected by competent medical inquirers that typhoid fever is internal smallpox; and the theory has been propounded that the diseased state of body which naturally ends in the smallpox eraption will, if the eruption be artificially prevented or obstructed, assume the form known as typhoid, enteric, or gastric fever, - H. D. D.   WHERE IS THE STANDARD ?  Dr Makuna, in the Fulham Hospital Report, under date May 8, 1879, observes : -  " I do not feel and surely those who have paid attention to the study of variola and vacdne will corroborate my views - ^when I say that the classification of the disease, the standard of vaccination, good and indifferent vaccine cicatrices, and other points on the allied subjects are very meagrely attended to by the profession, and differently interpreted by different observers. What one will call an indifferent mark, another will call fair, a third moderate, and a fourth bad, and so on, till the confusion is worse confounded. In treating of other diseases, we use the nomenclature laid down by the authority of the medical profession and scientific bodies. Then why not take up these subjects, throw more light upon them, and make them intelligible to the members of the profession? Hundreds of medical students will accurately give you the composition of rhubarb pills, but how many of them will be found to know, much less make out, good or indifferent vaccine marks ? "   AMPTHILL smallPOX.  When the Ampthill bill of mortality comes to be made up, the inhabitants will find they have suf- fered nothing from their variolous visitation ; that their average death-rate has been much the same as usual ; and that certain other causes of death have been displaced by smallpox. - Kentioerx to Dr Andrew Buchanan.  Kentigern's surmise is more than correct. The deaths from all causes during the first quarter of this year, 1882, have been under the average.  Ampthill appears to be an unhealthy place, having a high rate of mortality and a decreasing population ; the number at the last census being nearly ten per cent, less than in 1871.  In an exceptionally healthy season a certain number of weakly persons have died from  smallpox , who, in a season of ordinary mortality would, in common with others, have succumbed to other causes of death.  The average mortality in the first quarter during the ten years, 1872-81 inclusive (calculated on the 1871 or larger population), was 56, or 24'2 per 1,000 annually - a very high rate for a country place.  Dunng the corresponding quarter this year, when the smallpox deaths reached the annual rate of 0,043 per million, the general mortality was only 23*8 per 1,000.  I have not the details of zymotic disease for 1874-6-6, but during the first quarter of the other seven years of the decade above specified, there was not a single death from smallpox in Ampt- hill; yet more died in those years than when ^* smallpox was so bad." Cabpe Dikm.   A FOURTH edition, revised and improved, of " The Fable of the Smallpox Hospital Nurses Saved from Smallpox by Ee- vaccination ," has just been published by the London Society. As the Kurse Fable is worked so industriously, it is weU to have the truth as an antidote at hand in convenient and convincing form.   .   67   COMPULSION IN GEORGIA.  The Atlanta City Council passed an ordinance on May 8 making vaccination absolutely compul- sory. The Board of Health was directed to open free vaccination offices, and to send a band of physicians from house to house to vaccinate the inhabitants. Persons refusing to be vaccinated were to be removed to a quarantine camp outside the city, and whoever interfered with the police in removing the obstinate to quarantine were subject to fine and imprisonment. We read in the Philadelphia Times : -   (C   The Atlanta method of treating smallpox is the most radical on record. Some colonred people living in a block of wooden honses in a central part of the city were afflicted with this disease. By municipal authority the block was set on fire, the colonred people having been first turned out. This is a more expensive method than that of the ordi- nary prescriptions of doctor and apothecaryi for property holders will naturally present their bills for destroyed buildings, and will not be likely to make them very small, even though the property be old and ready to tumble down. Many nice questions concerning the rights of owners and lia- bilities of insurance companies might be brought into such a case as this."  The Mayor and Council of Barnesville, resolved not to be behind Atlanta, issued the following ordinance : -  " Each and every resident of the city of Bames- ville is hereby required to be successfully vaccinated or to be vaccinated a sufficient number of times to make it evident that successful  vaccination is impossible. Any person in the city of Bamesville who shall fail to comply with the requirements of the above ordinance by May 25, 1882, may be moved to a suitable quarantine camp to be provided for that purpose. Any person over fifteen years of age, resident in the city of Bames- viUe, who shall fail or refuse to be successfully vaccinated by May 25, 1882, shall be arrested by any officer of the police force, and taken before the Mayor's court, and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in the sum of $100, or be imprisoned not exceeding thirty days, either or both, in the discretion of the court."   A RE-VACCINATED NURSE.  At the Fever Hospital, Lewes, a nurse was engaged and re-vaccina ted, November, 1881. She took smallpox about a week afterwards, and had it badly, but was not marked. She had been vaccinated in infancy, and again when ten years of age. At the time of her third vaccination, there were three or four cases of smallpox in the hospital ; and as she had never seen anyone in the disease, she was rather frightened. Her husband nursed her. He, too, was re-vaccinated at the same time as his wife, and did not take the disease. W. T. Mabtin.  Lewes, May 22, 1882.   To Our Adveb8ASIBS. - Those who cannot give any decisive reasons to their opponents are usually not very polite in their controversy. One's own success may be approximately estimated from the increasing want of politeness in the replies.- Helmholtz " On Thought in Medicine." 1877.   THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS AT COLOGNE, 1881.  We have received the report of this Congress, entitled. La Vacdns an Point de Vue Sistorique et Scienti/ique, edited by Dr. Hubert Boens, of Charleroi - a handsome volume of 280 pages. Dr. Boens observes, ^ The work is a compendium of all that has been written on vaccination, and is a handbook for anti-vaocinators." We hope next month to notice the volume at length.   VACCINATION LAW IN SWITZERLAND.  Mb. Tebb took Dr. Scheuerman's communication too literally at the annual meeting of the London Society. The vote was not to veto the law, but to submit it to the popular vote. The correspondent of the Daily News telegraphed from Geneva :-  '' The rejoicing of Mr. Tebb at the supposed rejection of the vaccination law as passed by the National Assembly was premature. A sufficiently signed requisition has been presented for its sub- mission to the popular vote, and it will have to undergo that ordeal. Upon the issue of the vote depends its fate. Had the measure related merely to vaccination, it might have encountered little opposition, but being virtually a Contagious Diseases Act, it will probably be rejected."  Dr. Scheuerman writes : - " On July 30 the citizens of Switzerland will record their votes for or agfunst the vaccination law. If they vote No, the law will be finally disposed of. We are now in a state of great activity. Pray send me copies of Mr. P. A. Taylor's letter to Dr. Carpenter in French for our committees in the Roman Cantons." .  WHY IS VACCINATION COMPULSORY ?  Mb. Snell lectured on this subject at Chambers Street Hall, Edinburgh, on June 18, dwelling specially on the controversial tactics of Dr. Carpenter. The question of compulsion was thus summed up : - The greater the danger to others of an " unvaccinated residuum ** the less the utility of vaccination ; and the less the danger the less excuse for interference. This presentation of the case was warmly approved by Dr. Bowie, and another friendly speech was contributed by Mr. Gumey, J.P., Northampton, who took credit for always imposing the smallest possible fine in vaccination cases.   Dr. George Pearson.  1 AM anxious to obtain copies ef the following publications of Dr. George Pearson, namely : -  "A Statement of Evidence from Trials of Variolous and Vaccine Matter in Inoculation ; whether or no a Person can undergo the  smallpox  after being affected with the cowpox." 8vo. London: 1804.  "A Paper containing the Besults of Eleven Years' Practice at the Original Vaccine Pock Institution." 8vp. London : 1811.  Pearson was a remarkable man, and had much more to do with the introduction of vaccination than Jenner ; but, strange to say, the publications mentioned are not in the library of the British Museum. Mr. Young, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster, will receive any communications con* coming them for me. Kentioern. DEATH FROM FOUE SCARIFICATIONS.  In the House of Commons, on Jnne 12, Mr. F. A. Taylor asked the President of the Local Government Board whether his attention had been called to the verdict of a coroner's jury at Holloway, of ''shock to the system following vaccination," the medical evidence being that the child in question might have survived two incisions, but was unable to withstand the shock caused by four. Mr. Dcdson said his attention had been called to the verdict, but as yet he had only been able to obtain brief newspaper reports. He had directed fui^ther inquiry into the circumstances. It was true that public vaccinators were directed by the Privy Council to make four scarifications, and, according to experience, no harm had resulted from that practice, which was adopted to ensure effectual vaccination. He might add that, according to the report, it was stated by the medical witnesses at the inquest that the public vaccinator would not necessarily inquire into the physical condition of the child before vaccination. That was a mis- apprehension, as instructions were expressly given to vaccinators to ascertain the state of the child's health before vaccination.   MR. JOHN SAVAGE, OF KINSALE.  In the House of Commons, on June 6, Mr. C. H. Hopwood put a question to the Chief Secretary for Ireland with regard to the repeated prosecutions of Mr. John Savage, of Einsale, county Cork; and inquired whether the right hon. gentleman would consider the propriety of directing the Irish Local Government Board to follow the example of the English Local Government Board in sending a cir- cular to the boards of g^nardians, recommending them to limit the number of non-vaccination prosecutions. Mr. Trevelyan said that Savage had been summoned twenty-seven times, and fined on eleven occasions for the non-vaccination of one child and twice for another. He petitioned the late Chief Secretary (Mr. Forster), who gave very careful attention to his case, and, after consultation with the Irish Local Government Board, informed him that the Board did not consider it was its province to interfere with the discretion which was vested in boards of guardians with respect to prosecutions under the Vaccination Acts.   THE SYPHILISED ZOUAVES.  In the House of Commons, on June 8, Mr. C. H. Hopwood asked the President of the Poor-law Board whether he had deemed it right to inquire, through the Foreign Office, and with what result, of the French Government, concerning the inoculation of a foul disease by vaccination in fifty-eight soldiers of the 4th Zouaves in Algiers, during the month of December, 1880 ; and, if not, whether he would be able in any other manner to obtain authentic information on a subject of such great interest. - Mr. Dodson : In August last the Foreign Office was good enough, at my request, to cause a communication to be addressed to the French Government relative to this alleged case, and some months afterwards the reply was received by the English Embassy in Paris. The information is, however, incomplete. I have now caused another application to be addressed to the Foreign Office; and I hope that if the French Government have obtained any further information since the date of the former letter, they will not object to furnish it.   RELENTLESS PERSECUTION BY THE MEXBOROUGH BOARD OF GUARDIANS.  Mb. John Tubneb, 35, Garden Street, Mezborough, has paid the following fines and costs for refusing to have his child, not yet eighteen months old, vaccinated : -  1881, Sept. 24, costs £2 ; 1882, Jan. 21, fine £1, costs 16s. ; April 1, costs 18s. 6d. ; June 10, fine £1, costs £2. 4s. 6d. ; total £7. 19s.  The magistrates connive at this cruel injustice and wrong, by allowing the costs of the doctor and of the clerk to the guardians as witnesses in a virtually undefended case, proceedings never contemplated by the Vaccination Acts. Such costs would not be allowed in any metropolitan police- court, where, in similar cases they never exceed 40.  W. Y.   Wk are glad to note the appearance of a second edition of the pamphlet by Sir J. Clarke Jervoise, Bart., on " Infection," with remarks by Miss Nightingale, cogent and confirmatory of Sir Jervoise's arguments. The pamphlet is published by Vacher & Sons, price sixpence.  MoBALiTY ov THE Medical Pbofession. - ^A number of physicians employed by the Health Board of Philadelphia to vaccinate at the public expense at be much a ^' point," have been suspended for making false returns. They not only made false returns, but they swore to them. Philadelphia is intensely moral. In other cities where similar swindles were perpetrated and exposed, the Health Board defended the swindlers. - Pittsburg Dispatch, May 19.  Light Bbeakino In. - The Medical Society of New Jersey, the oldest medical society in America, held its annual meeting on May 23. The most important discussion of the session was that on vaccination. Some of the members came out squarely in opposition to the gigantic fallacy, while many expressed themselves as doubtful as to whether vaccination was really a prophylactic against smallpox. - The Medical Tribune, New York, June, 1882.  Cabin versus Steebage. - A correspondent in the Dundee Advertiser of June 8, describing a voyage across the Atlantic in the Cunard steamer Falmyra^ observes : - " The steerage passengers have all been vaccinated by the doctor and his assistant on board, and will be examined before reaching Boston to see if in all cases it has been successful ; and in such cases as are not it will be repeated, otherwise they would not be allowed to land. So, to prove this operation, each emigrant is provided with a ticket or certificate. The cabin passengers are exempted." - The cabin passengers are exempted ! Such is Republican equity !  How TO Escape fbom Justice. - Edward Boothman, a stonemason, was brought before Mr. Edridge, at the Croydon Petty Sessions, charged with riotous conduct. The prisoner startled the Court by announcing that he had been assisting in removing his landlord to the smallpox Hospital. Mr. Edridge said he did not know what to do with the man. If he remanded him he would only, perhaps, carry the infection into the prison ; and if he were discharged he would probably carry it about with him wherever he went. All he could say to the prisoner was: "Go away, and get away as soon as you can." Mr. Edridge ordered the police to disinfect the cell in which prisoner had been confined, so that other prisoners might not take the disease. - Daily Chronicle, June 7.   He who knows onl/ his own side of the case, knows Utile o! tkftt.- J. SrrxBT Mill. Prejadice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.- ArBBBY Bb Vbbb.  Dhe Uai:ditati0it Jttqmrer   Vol. IV., No. 41.]   AUGUST, 1882.   [Price Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.   Thbbb is obviously little hope of the second reading of Mr. P. A. Taylor's Bill for the repeal of the compulsory clauses of the Vaccination Acts during the present session of Parliament. Notices of motion are recorded by Mr. G. N. Warton, member for Bridport; by Mr. IL N. Fowler, member for London ; and by Mr. Edward Heseage, member for Great Grimsby, that the Bill be rend that day three months. Mr. War- ton's opposition was to be anticipated. It is his part to play the Gonservative Galiban -  Which any print of goodness will not take, Being capable of all ill.  Mr. Fowler may consider himself possessed of a vested interest in smallpox, the fortune of his firm being laid in the gains of Baron Dimsdale as inoculator of the Empress Gatharine, and assiduous cultivator of the disease at home. Mr. Heneage is a bewildered Liberal, the light and air of his connection and profession being too strong for him. Moreover, in Great Grimsby he represents a population that suffered more severely than any other in the smallpox epidemic of 1871 ; the deaths being at the rate of 9,B00 per million in Grimsby. The compulsory prescription which then proved worthless, Mr. fieneage would not have relaxed, inasmuch as it is war- ranted to answer better next time. He might profitably inquire, What will not vaccinators warrant?   Mb. K. Lee Bliss has done excellent service in drawing attention to the cases of injury and death from vaccination at Norwich, and compelling public inquiry ; but it b necessary, as Mr. P. A. Taylor observes (and has provided for), to supplement that inquiry with independent investigation. The business of the Medical Department of the Local Government Board is to rescue vacDr ation from discredit at all hazards, and the feats occasionally performed in pursuance of that end can only be described in terms that (out of view of the facts) would-be deemed scandalous.   What is possible in the line of prevarication may be inferred from a declaration of Dr. Stevens. " I have seen," he said, '' more vaccination, perhaps, than any man in England, and yet I have never witnessed any injury from the operation." The dodge involved in this and similar avowals is, that vaccination is not recognised as a cause of injury or death - injury or death being ascribed to some fault in the sufferer's constitution, or some maltreatment or epidemic influence coincident with the vaccination. Possessed of this formula, it is easy to swear vaccination out of any difficulty, and to treat all adverse evidence as ignorant misapprehension or malicious gossip. Initiated into the secret, the logic works as eadly as Sangrado's, and after a little practice any fellow is competent, in the medical phrase, '' to preserve vaccination from reproach." The tenour of Dr. Airy*s report on the Norwich cases, it would not be difficult to anticipate, or even to write it at a venture off- hand. We have only to reflect what would be the fate of the poor man at the office in White- hall, and in the medical journals, if aught appeared to the disadvantage of vaccination, in order to see that inquiry conducted on such terms is wholly incompatible with the indifference and veracity of science.  Tybannical as are the compulsory Vaccination Acts, their administration is yet more tyrannical. Possessed with fanaticism in favour of the vaccine rite, many magistrates fret under the restrictions of the law, aggravate its penalties, and in their passion and ignorance disregard the very elements of equity. It is therefore for those in conflict with the evil law to make themselves as far ns possible familiar with its provisions, in order to check the license of the Bench, and to suffer no more than they are bound to suffer. We have recently had to point out the illegality of prosecuting Guardians appearing in court to enact judgment as Magistrates, and how any convictions thus obtained may be quashed as invalid ; and we would now draw attention to a provision of the Act of 1871, of which many of our friends   .   under prosecution might ayul themselves with advantage. It runs thus : -  XI. The Defendant, in any proceedings under the principal Act or this Act, may appear by any member of his family, or any other person authorised by him in his behalf.  Thus, if a parent finds it inconvenient to answer to a summons, or considers himself unequal to his own defence, he may authorise any friend to appear in his stead, or may engage counsel to appear for him ; and the Bench is bound to receive and to hear his representatives as himself. Magistrates, ignorant of the law, frequently decline to deal with any save the defendant in person, and postpone the case until his appearance. The Secretary of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination will be glad to hear from those who meet with resistance in availing themselves of appearance by substitute, with a view to procuring redress.   Mb. p. a. Siljestbom writes from Stock- holm : - I was not aware that the English lived in such awe of medicine. I have often wondered whether any power on earth could frighten John Bull ; now I believe I have found one ; it is the doctor. The English law reminds me of an ordi- nance, in an opposite direction, issued in Finland at the time of the introduction of vaccination. It was: "That the inoculator or vaccinator, whose patients, within a shorter or longer time after having by him been inoculated or vaccinated, shall prove to have been attacked by natural smallpox, with deadly result or other serious consequence, shali without pardon be declared unworthy of all further right to reward or confidence, and, moreover, be impeached for due punishment on account of dishonest and unprofessional behaviour/' Do you not think this would be a most salutary proviso to introduce into your Compulsory Vaccination Act?   The observation of Professor Monro, in 1765, that "the inhabitants of Scotland, generally, have the smallpox in their infancy or childhood, very few adults being seen in this disease,^' receives a remarkable confirmation in '* An Inquiry into the Prevalence of smallPox in Kilmarnock in the Last Century," just published by Dr. McVail. The Doctor has discovered a register of mortality of Kilmarnock, during a period of thirty-six years, 1728 to 1764, and from it has obtained material for an interesting disquisition. It seems that outbreaks of smallpox occurred in the town at intervals of about four-and-a-half years, nine epidemics being recorded in the time   under review, resulting in 622 deaths. Of these writes Dr. McVail : -  "Only three occurred in people over twenty years of age, one a lad aged 20, another a married woman aged 21, and the third, a dragoon, aged 26, who. from his occupation and name (Aspdal), was prooably an incomer to the town, as the old registrar calls strangers to distinguish them from the ' indwellers,' or settled inhabitants."  It is added that " of forty-five children who succumbed in the epidemic of 1733, forty-four were less than 4 years 8 months old, the remaining one being aged 7. Thus only one child that died in the 1 733 epidemic had been alive in the • previous epidemic of 1728." These are remarkable facts and serve to show that, as Dr. Monro pointed out, smallpox in Scotland had a some- what different incidence than in England last century, and a considerably different incidence from that of the present day ; though, neverthe- less, smallpox continues to be in the great majority of cases a juvenile disease. To be secure from smallpox in old Kilmarnock, it sufficed to be no longer a child.   KiLMABNocE Suffered severely from smallpox. The total deaths from all causes in the thirty-six years, 1728-64, were 3,860, of which 622 were attributed to smallpox, or 16 per cent.; whilst in Edinburgh, during the same period, the rate was no more than 10 per cent. Dr. McVail describes the disease as exciting terror in Kilmar- nock, saying, " One can barely imagine what must have been the feelings of a mother regarding these fearful visitations ''-an extraordinary misapprehension of the temper of the time. smallpox excited as little dismay in Scotland then as does measles at this day. The disease was accepted as part' of the course of nature. Not only were no attempts made to limit its extennon, but its infection was courted for children as an inconvenience it was good policy to encounter and have done with. The Doctor further describes those ^'who recovered as growing up disfigured for life " an occasional consequence of smallpox, but absurdly untrue of the majority of sufferers. Unfortunately, the population of Kil- marnock at the time in question is unknown. It may have been 3,350 or 4,200, the latter being the more probable figure, which would give an average general doath-rate of about 24 per 1,000 per annum ; or practically the same as that of the larger Kilmarnock of 24,000 inhabitants of the present day. At this point we would ask Dr. McVail wherein he exhibits his profit? He is exultant over the decline of smallpox, ascribing it to vaccination, but if people die at the   THE VACCINATION INQTJIEER.   71   same rate in new Eilmarnock as in old Kilmarnock, in what respect is their advantage? It may be preferable to die of any disease rather than smallpox, but that is matter of taste. Were it otherwise, however ; were the death-rate of old Kilmarnock greater than that of new Kilmarnock, the fact might fairly be ascribed to worse conditions of existence. Dr. McVail appears to fancy that he has made a discovery for the discomfiture of Mr. P. Aa Taylor and his adherents; on the contrary, he has provided them with some fresh material for the maintenance of their position. * They are not concerned to question the prevalence of  smallpox  at any place or period, though they have continually to check rabid exaggeration as to numbers and fatalities. What they say is, that health is a result of conformity to the conditions of health, and disease of nonconformity ; and that health is the measure of the one and disease of the other : that it is vain to expect immunity from disease, whilst abiding in the conditions of its generation, by any such magic as vaccination ; and that if by effective interference, diseases could be tran&- formed, they would be no more than transformed with aggravation. Settled in this conviction, it is easy for them to view with interest and equani- mity discoveries of the past like that of Dr. McYail's, satisfied that -  Whatever record leap to light. They never can be shamed.   As is well known, the Government was driven by Dr. Cameron, M.P., and his associates into the provision of calf-lymph for public vaccination. We say '^driven," because, as is well known, the medical officers of the Local Government Board bad no confidence in the nostrum that was to ^ avert all scandal from the fair fame of vaccination." They judged it expedient to yield to the clamour rather than intensify controversy by straightforward opposition, and thereby imperil the great medical interest for which they are respomiible. Concession is a cunning way toward suppression. " We yield to prevail ** is the motto of the adroit in presence of agitation which for the moment it is injudicious to resist. In pursuance of these tactics, there was great delay in opening the Calf Lymph Establishment in Lamb*s Conduit Street; and Dr. Cory, who was placed at the head of it, was, to put it mildly, no fellow- believer with Dr. Cameron. An enterprise so launched, and under such auspices, does not bear within it the conditions of success ; and the abiding disposition of the Whitehall authorities toward it came out clearly in an inquiry addressed   by Mr. Hopwood in the House of Commons to Mr. Dodson, the President of the Local Government Board. Mr. Hopwood asked whether the Board were prepared to advise the public which of the two modes of vaccination now in use was to be preferred - namely, the one with matter derived from arm to arm, or the one with matter from calf to calf. Mr. Dodson replied, " The Board have every confidence, after their long experience, in vaccination from arm to arm ; but they have not yet had experience on a large scale of vaccination direct from the calf. Both are believed to be equally trustworthy ; but I am not prepared to advise my hon. friend, or any other person, which he should select." No one, of course, supposes that Mr. Dodson is personally responsible for this deliverance ; he speaks as advised ; and thus regarded, the advice acquires singular significance. Arm to arm virus is entitled to every confidence, and calf to calf virus to equal confidence. In this statement we have what the Board consider it discreet to assert, but scarcely what Mr. Dodson's advisers, conversant with the facts, can seriously believe. The pedigrees of arm to arm virus date from the-vj^cginning of the century, and comprise stocks from cowpox, from  horsepox , from  horsepox  cow->poX| from  smallpox  cowpox, etc., etc., modified x& endless ways in transit from child to child. Yet all are good alike, impeccable and trustworthy! If arm to arm virus be thus unimpeachable, why, then, engage in the calf to calf enterprise, unless, as we have said, to quench the clamour of Dr. Cameron and his friends, who charged the Board^s trust- worthy virus with diminished virulence, with generating smallpox, and with communicating the worst of diseases. Nevertheless the Board, whilst yielding to Dr. Cameron, do not admit his contention. His calf-to-calf virus is good, but no better than their own, which he so energetically denounced. Moreover, the Board warrant their own virus from long experience, but inti- mate that the now variety is under trial. Mr. Hopwood further inquired whether it had not been shown that tubercle might be transmitted in calf-lymph, to which Mr. Dodson cautiously made answer : *' It is not within the knowledge of the Board that tubercle has been transmitted by lymph from the calf." Possibly ; but there are members of the Board who are far more certain that such lymph may transmit tubercle than that it can avert smallpox. The game revealed in Mr. Dodson's replies is obvious, and if it does not result in the damnation of calf-lymph with faint praise, it will not be for want of will and craft on the part of the players. Mb. Gobbie Gbant subjected Dr. Colgate, public Taccinator, to a thorough heckling, in Scots phrase, in the Eastbourne police-court, on July 17, when a party of fourteen parents were brought up for refusing to have their children Tacdnated. The doctor was questioned as to his method of practice, the instructions he rereceived, the virus he used, the diseases communicable by such virus, &c. ; and the examination was reported at length in the local press. The result was that a fine of 20s. and 128. costs were imposed in each case, whilst an appeal was allowed to a superior court on the question of reasonable cause for refudng to vaccinate. The Eastbourne justices are fanatically in favour of vaccination, and express regret that no severer penalties can be inflicted on the nonconformists brought before them. We strongly commend to our friends the heckling of public vaccinators, and getting the reports of their examinations into the newspapers. Our interest lies in publicity; in teaching all and sundry what vaccination is, what a variety of practice is included under the designation, and what dangers are inseparable from the rite in whatever form ; and we may estimate what is our advantage in this procedure by the resistance it meets with in the determination to preserve vaccination as a mystery reserved for the medical priesthood.  ^1 WISH it were possible to carry out Dr. Sweeting*8 proposal to have all vaccinations performed by public vaccinators,'' writes M. D. " It would do away with the grievous inequality that exists between the richer and the poorer classes. Infants vaccinated by privafb practitioners are carefully considered as to season and condition ; but the infants of the poor are operated upon with reckless indiscrimination and severity; and for that cause alone, if vaccination were as useful as it is superfluous and mischievous, the poor would be justified in the dislike they everywhere entertain towards the practice. Dr. Sweeting's proposal is, however, impracticable. Our legislators and their electors would never submit their off- spring to public vaccination; and Dr. Sweeting in making the suggestion gives us the measure of his judgment. It is not, however, surprising that a medical man who believes that Hunter was Jenner's unde, should fail to discriminate between what he would like and what cannot be had."   " I LIKE the idea of insurance against  vaccination," writes a clergyman from Somersetshire, ^ and I hope the London Sodety may reduce it   to practice. There may be objections - there are to every proposal ; there may be legal obstacles but I am sure it must be right to co-operate against a common wrong. At any rate, it would be well to make the experiment, and if, after adequate trial, it does not answer, it may be discontinued. Many, I am satisfied, would enter into public conflict with the evil law if assured of sympathy, and would gladly pay liberally for insurance if they could thereby enjoy the sense of support. There are some who, like Athanadus, can stand with truth against the world, but they are not numerous. We are social creatures, and miserable and helpless in isolation. Then, too, we all feel aggrieved and wretched when men, brave and true and poor, sustain prosecution after prosecution, unaided, for the truth in which we are alike interested. I have just heard that John Savage, of Kinsale, is once more under attack, having been served with a twenty-eighth summons, the supposition being that in the end he may be crushed. Were he a man of means, he might have been fined once, and then let alone. It would be a true satisfaction to pay the premium for a confessor like Savage, and place him secure under the aegis of the Sodety. What a pity it is that where there is so little law for good as in Ireland, there should be such superfluity for mischief." - ^We may mention that the committee of the London Society have the question of Insurance against Vaccination under serious condderation.   The WoLVKRHAMProN Case. - A poor child was lately killed at Wolverhampton by vaccination, and the oonseqnent outcry provoked a Government inquiry, concerning which Dr. Ewing Whittle, of Liverpool, -writes as follows in the British Medical Journal, of July 16 : - " This case illustrates forcibly how an important element in an inquiry may be completely overlooked ; it also teaches an important lesson, viz., that it is highly dangerous to vaccinate a child who is the subject of hereditary disease, by which we may presume that syphilis is meant. It is well known to those who have had much experience of vaccination that in such cases, if sufficient time has not been allowed to pass for the hereditary disease to be completely cured before vaccination, that the vaccination, though itself running a natural course, yet invariably causes the hereditary disease to break out with increased and generally fatal virulence. No such child should be vaccinated until it has been, at the very least, twelve months free from any trace of syphilis. Though two official ex})ert8 were eng^aged in this case, this important point was never referred to, and the probability remains that, if the vaccination had been postponed, the child might be alive now, and might have eventually recovered. There may well be anti- vaccinators, when we find Government inquiries conducted in this purely perfunctory manner.      73   FACTS RELATIVE TO smallPOX AND VACCINATION IN INDIA.  [^Prom the Bhie Book Report ^ vol. xiii., on Sanitary Measures in India, 1879-80.]  Althouoh the reg^ration of yital statistics in India is very defective, fairly trustworthy information is accessible in the above-mentioned report as to the ravages of smallpox and the practice of vaccination. The testimony of the Sanitary Commissioners of the various provinces of this vast empire is virtually unanimous in attaching more importance to sanitary measures and the application of hygienic laws as pi^e- ventives of smallpox than to vaccination. Tney produce abundant evidence to prove what samtation has accomplished in diminishing the mortality from malaria, fevers, cholera, &c., and they see no reason to doubt that smallpox is amenable to control by the same rational expedients.  Notwithstanding that . vaccination was intro- duced into India in the early part of this century, it has never been regarded with much favour by the natives of India or its Mohammedan populations ; its beastly origin beinp repugnant both to their instincts and their religion.  We have the testimony of Dr. George Gregory, and of Surgeons Atkinson and Tweecue, in 1845, that up to that date : -  " Its progress had been slow, its operations only partially successful, its present prospects nnsatis- factory and discouraging. Pablic opinion has been unsettled regarding its advantages, and public confidence shaken in its efficacy and permanency as an antidote to smallpox - a feeling which is not confined to the common people, but prevails more perceptibly among the better informed and more reflecting classes of the community. So far from diminishing in number, the invasions of smallpox have of late become frequent and destructive in many towns and provinces."  A further experience of thirty-five years has failed to reconcile the Hindoo to the defiling rite ; consequently we are not surprised to read (p. 11) : *' The smallpox epidemic has so shaken their confidence in its protective value, that some of them will have nothing to do with it." And on p. 20: '^In several distncts bribes were given to mothers for allowing lymph to be taken from their children's arms;** that in the Punjab (p. 21) " considerable opposition is still shown to vaccination in several districts ; " that in Partabgarh <Uhe people have firmly resolved not to accept vaccination. It is recorded that in some villages in that district the people not only drove the vaccinator away, but in several instances assaulted him."  In Berar, the higher classes of Hindus and Mahommedans display passive oppoation, and Government servants appear indisposed to have their children operated on.  In Kurrachee, animal vaccination, that latest device of vaccination quackery, had to be aban- doned in deference to the prejudices of the Hindus.  Of 13,803 deaths from smallpox in Madras, 4,361 occurred amongst infants under one year old, and 6,728 between the ages of one year and twelve.   The smallpox deaths in the whole of India, in 1879, amounted to 195,380 ; the vaccinations to 4,037,091 ; the latter being about a forty-seventh of the entire population.  The following table shows the smallpox mortality in the different provinces in 1879 : -  smallpox  Provinces. Deaths.  Assam 1,418  Bengal 22,843  Berar 71  Bombay 1,156  British Burmah 2,297  Calcutta 772  Central Provinces 25,492  Coorg 71  Madras 17,840  Mysore 278  North- West Provinces and Oudh 78,653  Punjab 49,489  Dr. Cuningham, an Indian sanitary officer of long and great experience says : -  " The vaccination returns throughout India show the fact that the number of vaccinations does not necessarily bear a ratio to the smallpox deaths. smallpox in India is related to season, and also to epidemic prevalence ; it is not a disease, therefore, that can be controlled by vaccination, in the sense that vaccination is a specific against it. As an endemic and epidemic disease, it must be dealt with by sanitary measures, and if these be neglected, smallpox is sure to increase during epidemic times."  The Sanitary Commissioner for Bombay reports : -  " Bombay Presidency has long had an efficient vaccination service, but many years must elapse before the whole population can be vaccinated, and then behind all is the epidemic period itself, over which vaccination appears hitherto to have exerted no influence."  The Commissioner for Bengal states : -  ** The facts regarding vaccination are somewhat conflicting, and not very satisfactory. In Bankura town the smallpox death-rate attained the high figure of 9' 11 per 1,000, 153 having died of it. The one noteworthy fact about the disease is its seasonal distribution, which shows that the death-rate increased with increase of temperature and fell with the advent of the rains."  Relative Ages of the Victims.  Some interesting facts are recorded reladve to smallpox in the Punjab. In the town of Jagadhri, with 12,652 inhabitants, the deaths amounted to 156, or at the rate of 12*46 per cent. Out of 52 towns in the returns of the Sanitary Commis- sioner, only seven escaped the epidemic. The reported death ages were as follows : -  . smallpox  ^f^^' Deaths.  Underoneyear 9,832  One year to twelve 86,826  Twelve years and upwards 8,881  The Commisuoner is of opinion that : -  "Vaccination in the Punjab, as elsewhere in India, has no power apparently over the course of   74   THE VACCINATION INQUIREH.   an epidemio. It may modify and diminiBh the number of fatal cases, but the whole Indian experience points in one direction, and this is that the severitj of a smallpox epidemic is more closely connected with sanitary defects, which intensify the activity of other epidemic diseases, than is nsnally imagined/'  In the North- Western Provinces and Oudh the deaths from smallpox in 1879 were 73,653. Deaths from it were refpstered in 774 circles out of 1,089, and every district in the proyinces yielded smallpox deaths.  The following table, giving the monthly inci- dence of mortality, exhibits the influence of season and temperature; the highest mortality, contrary to European experience, occurring in the hottest months : -   Months. S-",S:'  January ... 3,958 February... 6,049  March 10,962  April 15,837  May 15,246  June 10,637   July 6,427  August 3,015  September... 980  October 330  November ... 271  December ... 441   In the Central Provinces, in 1879, smallpox destroyed 26,492 persons. The disease prevailed during every month of the year, and in all the district^, the highest mortality, 4,949, being in June; the lowest, 243, in October.  No Pbotkction Afforded by Previoijs Shall-poz, by Inoculation, ob by Vaccination.  The following statement about Sambulpur is interesting. For five years its average  smallpox  death-rate had been only 0*19 per 1,000 ; but in 1879 the rate increased to 2-36 per 1,000. The past comparative immunity of the population had Deen attributed to efficient vaccination, but confidence in its protective powers has been shaken by the reappearance of a severe form of the disease. During the early part of the year there had been a good deal of chicken-pox in Sam- bulpur town. When the smallpox broke out later on, it attacked those who had been inocurlatedy vaccinated, and who had previoibsily had smallpox\ Of the inoculated, 301 took the disease ; of the vaccinated, 677 ; of the unprotected, 729; or 1,607 in all. Of the total attacked, 239, or 1487 per cent., died.  The commissioner for Berar evidently has but little faith in vaccination. He is of opinion that irrespective of all conditions, or of the extent and efficiency of vaccination, smallpox recurs as an epidemic every three or four years ; and in sup- port of his yiews gives the following table : -  Annual Death-bates fbom smallpox in Bebab singe 1869: -   Years.   1869. 1870. 1871. 1872. 1873. 1874.   Deaths per 1,000. .. 3*0 .. 0-68 .. 0-2 .. 3-8 .. 3-8 .. 06   Years.   1876. 1878. 1877. 1878. 1879.   Deaths per 1,000. .... 0-4 .... 0-2 .... 2*9 .... 2-7 .... 003   DESTRUCTIVE VACCINATION AT NORWICH.  In the House of Commons, on July 14, Mr. P. A. Taylor asked the President of the Local Government Board whether be had received a memorial from Norwich giving a list of eight children, four of whom had died, and the rest were in a dan- gerous condition, from the effects of vaccination performed by the public vaccinator on June 13 ; and whether he would cause a searching and public inquiry to be made into all the circum- stances of the case, and direct that facilities be giyen for the friends of the children to be duly represented at that inauiry.  Mr. Dodson said the representation was received, and Dr. Airy, one of the medical inspec- tors of the Board, was directed to proceed at once to Norwich, and make full inquiry into the circumstances of the case. He was now engaged in that inquiry, which would be conducted in the usual manner. The friends of the children would have a full opportunity of making their statements.  Mr. Taylor. - Will they have the opportunity of employing legal assistance?  Mr. Dodson. - No. They will have full oppor- tunity of making their own statements.  Mb. R. Lee Bliss to Db, Aibt*  Tombland, Norwich, July 16, 1882.  Sib, - I shall be glad to learn- First, When and where the inquiry will take place ? Second, Will the parents be allowed to be represented by a legal gentleman? Third, Will you allow me to be present at the inquiry? - Your reply to above will greatly oblige, yours faithfully,  R. Lee Bliss.  Dr Aiby to Mb. R Lee Bliss.  Royal Hotel, Norwich, July 16, 1882.  Sm, - I beg to acknowledge yours of this morning, and in reply to your inquiries I beg to state that - 1. I propose, in accordance with the instructions of the Local Government Board, to gather information by personal inquiry at the retidenxies of all the persons concerned. The time of such inquiry I cannot definitely fix, but I am already engaged upon it. 2. The mode of inquiry which I am pursuing precludes the attendance of a legal gentleman. It will be my duty to gather from the  Earents their account of the focts. 3. I shall be appy to receive any statement you may wish to make bearing upon these cases, but I cannot regard it as according with my instructions to accept your company on my visits of inquiry. - I am, sir, your obedient servant, Hubebt Aiby.  Fbom Letteb of Mb. P. A. Taylob, in THE Echo OF July 10.  I PUT a question to the President of the Local Qovernment, asking, in reference to this case, whether he would cause a searching and public inquiry to be made, and whether he would allow the parents of the children to have the assistance of friends, legal or other, at such inquiry. The answer being in the negative, it became at once evident that the report of the Government Inspector who had been sent down would not be satisfactory either to the parties immediately   THfi VACCINATION INQUIRER   75   interested or to the puhlic, seeing that a Medical Inspector of Vaccination must of necessity be a partisan of the system, and would too probably follow the example of various medical men who have declared that, so great was their reverence for vaccination, that tney could never persuade themselves to give evidence in its disfavour. The worthlessness of Government inquiries into such cases has lately been illustrated by the so-called inquiry into the Wolverhampton case, in regard to which Dr. Ewing Whittle, of Liverpool, writes in the Lancet of July 16: - "There may well be anti- vaccinators when we find Government inquiries conducted in this purely perfunctory manner."  I resolved, therefore, to institute an inquiry on my own account, and to this end procured the assistance of a gentleman in whose intelligence and discretion I could place the most implicit confidence. He at once proceeded to the spot, with instructions to obtain from the parents' own lips the precise facts of each case. On arriving at Norwich, he found that the Medical Inspector had refused the suggestion of Mr. Bliss, that a legal adviser should 1^ permitted to the parents, and had even refused to Mr. Bliss himself permission to accompany him. There was, therefore, no alternative but to pursue an independent inquiry, the result of which is that I am in posses- sion of depositions signed by the parents, and attested by witnesses in each of the cases. I shall now wait for the ofiicial report, hoping to be able to confirm its truthfulness, but ready to supply omissions or to correct errors, should the necessity arise.  It may readily be imagined that the testimony of these poor people was given with some hesita^ tion. Generally they were indignant at their treatment by the authorities, but frightened and helpless. They seemed in dread of the  vaccination Officer, the Medical Officer, the Board of Guardians, and the Law at the back of it all. In every case but one, the parents, with quiet and sorrowful earnestness, declared that they would never again suffer a child of theirs to be vaccinated. The excention to which I have referred was a mother who retains the orthodox faith in  vaccination, and attributes the death of her child to the fact of its having been ill when the operation was performed. Even if she is correct - ^which, under the circumstances, hardly seems probable - it involves at least a charge of carelessness agunst the public vaccinator.  I cannot conclude without saying that these official inquiries into the cause of death are really a piece of cynical impertinence. Healthy children are poisoned by vaccination ; they sicken within a few days, and die within a month ; and then the Government send down a medical expert to inquire why the poor little things have ceased to live!   Canine Vaccination. - It has been affirmed that dogs, by undergoing a disorder produced by inoculating the cowpock matter, are rendered incapable of what is called the distemper ; but, as far as I can learn, this assertion is unproved, as is the origin of vaccina in horse-grease. - George Pear- son, M.D. - Examination of Report of Committee of House of Commons, 1802.   A FIRST CASE AT REIGATE.  Mb. E. Melville Lynch, M.A. Oxon., of Gatton-road, Redhill, appeared before the Reigate Borough Bench on July 17, in answer to a summons for neglecting to have his child vaccinated within three months of its birth. Mr. Lynch pleaded guilty technically to the offence.  The Mayor, (Alderman Robert Field : Have you any prejudices ?  Mr. Lynch: I have no prejudices, but I have reasons. Vaccination is condemned as useless and dangerous by competent investigators in this country and in most civilised countries, although it is still accepted by the majority of the medical profession. That is why I have not had my child vaccinated. As to disobeying the law, I disobeyed the law because I consider it a law which a good citizen is justified in disobeying. I hold that the law has no more right to command us to vaccinate our children, than it has to command us to bring up our children in such and such a faith. There are divers medical creeds as there are divers religious beliefs, and for the Legislature to impose one of those creeds upon citizens, under pains and penalties, is the same as enforcing upon them a particular belief. It is a gross violation of indi- vidual liberty.  The Mayor : You have brought forward your views, and the magistrates have listened to you quietly, but they cannot possibly agree with you. You are resisting the law, but whilst the law is in existence it must be obeyed. You must remember that the law of vaccination has been Sromulgated with a view to stop a most fearful isease, and it is the duty of all good citizens to help that law being effectually and effectively carried out. The magistrates have no alternative but to fine you 10s. and costs ; but if you do not comply with the law on a future occasion, they will feel it necessary to inflict a heavier penalty. The case, as the first of the kind in the Reigate district, has excited considerable attention, and the county paper, the Surrey Mirror, had an editorial on the subject. Said the Editor: -  "It is strange that people will prefer to hold to theory rather than fact, and to reject the great mass of evidence for the infinitely less. Yet Mr. Lynch is only one of thousands who do so. They admit that smallpox has been all but exterminated, that its disfiguring effects have been reduced to a minimum, and that the vast majority of medical men attribute these results entirely to vaccination ; yet they persist that vaccination is an unmitigated evil, and are content to accept as sufficient proof of their proposition the dictum of a few self- sufficient * competent investigators,' and one or two solitary cases of disease or death which they believe are traceable to the introduction into the system of the child of the impure vaccine lymph. We have not the slightest doubt that there have been cases in which vaccination has proved positively injurious, but these are but as one to ten thousand where the effect has been for good, and therefore it is right that the interests of the community should be protected as against the fancies of a few, and that a compulsory Vaccination Act should have been passed."  smallpox all but exterminated I Notwith- standing omniscience, the editor appears to be ignorant of the fact that in London last year,   76      1881 1 there perished 2,371 Tictims of the disease. So much for extermination ! As for the mischiefs of vaccinatioDi if the editor will condescend to be informed, let him refer to the Parliamentary Return, No. 392, 1880, and there he will discoTer that while the death-rate of infants from all causes is declining^, the death-rate from inoculable, and therefore vaccinal^ diseases is increasing. The assertion, therefore, that the mischiefs of vaccination are limited to solitary instances in ten thousands is talk without reference to reality. The editor proceeds : -  " It is, however, a question whether the time has not come when vaccination may nofc be made permissive. There are comparatively so very few who are blind to its advantages that no more than at present would avoid it ; and by the abolition of the compulsory clauses a grievance would be removed, and the country would cease to be bored with the endless flood of anti-vaccination literature with which it is at present overwhelmed."  As to the propriety of leaving vaccination to individual discretion, we are agreed. Mr. Lynch claims no more. Dislike to the rite, however, is much more widely diffused than the editor supposes, as " the floods of anti-vaccination literature *' attest. Finally, we have a prayer and a vow, thus : -  *' We sincerely hope that this first case in Reigate Union will prove the last ; and that we may be preserved from an anti*vaccinatton campaign in the borough. We at all events shall do our best to prevent it by resolutely refusing to allow a correspondence to be opened up in our columns. The subject is flat, stale, and unprofitable, and all the logic in creation is powerless to convince people who are determined not to be convinced, and who permit themselves to be led by a fad."  The prayer is not likely to be answered, if the law remains unaltered; and it may be possible for science and good sense to find entrance to ReigatC) though excluded from the columna of the Surrey Mirror,   THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR INVOKED.  8, Harcourt-buildings, Temple, E.C., July 10, 1882.  Sib, - I feel extremely surprised that tou should have ventured to forward a post-card of the desf^ription headed " Think before you Vaccinate !''.... Your communication is a direct incitement to a breach of the law ; and as such I shall take an opportunity of bringing it, together with the circumstances under which it was sent, under the notice of the Public Prosecutor.  I am, &c., To S. M. Bhodbs.  Mr. William Young, Secretary of the London Society for the Abolicion of Compulsory Vaccination.   Double Action of smallpox. - A disposition to certain diseases, and even diseases themselves, are not rarely brought on by the smallpox ; but sometimes also dispositions to diseases, and diseases themselves, of the most.inveterate kind are removed by the smallpox. - G£oboe Pearson, M.D. " An Inquiry concerning cowpox," 1798, p. 77.   VACCINATION STATISTICS.  (From the JBcho, July 11, 1882.)  In fairness to us anti-vaccinists, it ought to be pointed out that the decrease in the average of deaths from smallpox (per million living) since 1838, the first year of registration, is not really so large as is made out by the vaccination party. In order to see what this decrease really amounts to, it is imperatively necessary to divide the years since 1837 into two equal periods. I believe the average for 1881 is not yet published. We must, therefore, stop at 1879, to order to get an even number of years. From 1838 to 1879 (inclusive) is forty-two years, from which four years are to be deducted in which no account of deaths from smallpox was taken. In the first period of nineteen years - 1838 to 1842, and 1847 to 1860 - the total average of smsJl-pox deaths per million living is 332. In the second period of nineteen years - 1861 to 1879 - the total is 217, or a decrease of only one- third, in spite of the great extendon of vaccination since 1860. The series of averages which began with the extraordinary figure of 1,064 per million in 1838 would naturally fall almost every year, until a severe epidemic occurred. But the general public, not bein^ aware of the fluctuating cha- racter of epidenucs, has been prone to attribute to vaccination the steady fall since 1838 from the initial average of 1,064 per million. As a matter of fact, however, the total average stopped falling and rose again in the epidemic of 1865-6. Then, when it had fallen (I am speaking of total averages since 1838, and not of averages for single years) to 275 per million in 1870, the great epidemic caused it to rise again for the second time, so that only in 1879 had it fallen again to the figure it had stood at in 1870. It seems important to notice this, for in 1866 and 1867 the greatest jjossible credit was given to vaccination for causing an uninterrupted fall in the average since 1838. Probably the figures for 1865-6 were not then out, which would have shown the first check to the steady fall of averages. Anyhow, we can now show two risings of the average mortality since 1838; and the epidemic of 1871 proved that it was even possible, after two compulsoiy Acts, to get within 40 ^r million of the terrible mortality of 1838, in spite of greatly increased population. Had Parliament dreamt of such a possibility as a mortality of 1,024 per million in 1871, and a pause in the fall of the average from 1870 to 1879, the passage of the Vaccination Act of 1867 might not nave been so easy. Clifton.   Medical Trade Unioks. - A -wTitcr in the Midland Medical Miscellany ezprosses the hope " that our brother practitioners will learn that unity is strength," which is really about the last piece of advice I should have thought necessary, for if there is anywhere under the sun a trade union of the most implacable kind, equalling in its operations the cruelty of the very worst forms of trade unions, it is the medical societies or unions. No Sheffield razor-gander ever yielded up his liberty of action more completely to his union than our doctors do to theirs. - Midland Free Press.   .   n   DR. MERKEL^S EXPERIENCE.  Dr Mebkel, writing in the N'ew York Medical Tribune, says : -  At the last meeting of the National Association, at St. Louis, a gentleman from Iowa read a paper commending vaccination as preventive of  smallpox . An animated discussion ensued, showing an absorhing interest amonf^ members ; but many pre-eminent as reformers in medicine appeared to have their eyes closed in regard to the fact. Such a spectacle is a painful one. Can it be that these men are really ignorant of the facts? Or are they overborne by the clamour that has been got up by exciting the people's fearP If they are wilfully ignorant, there is little hope. He who adopts opinions without reason will never be convinced by reasoning.  I, too, have been so foolish as to suppose that vaccination had some comparative utility ; but I can now say with Dr. E. Reich, '^ The scales have fallen from my eyes, and I see that the foundation of the Babylonish Tower has been built upon sand."  The assertion is made in Buch's Hygiene and Public Health that every year shows the increasing readiness of the lower classes to suffer their children to be vaccinated. This can hardly be true. They may have been driven into it by tyrannical statutes and brutal ofRcials, or otherwise coerced. But, as rational beings, they are more opposed to it than ever. The qu3stion is asked every day, Whether vaccination is really necessary in order to prevent children from taking smallpox?  It is not because they are ignorant that our poorer population resist vaccination. They have witnessed its ill-effects. Last year many cnildren in Boston, who were vaccinated, broke out with an ichorous ulceration all over their bodies, and it was explfdned that the vaccinators were unscru- pulous, and had made use of ^ doubtful lymph."  My own observations, however, during the last two years, have shown me that the same ill result occurred in cases where the " best " of fresh animal vaccine virus had been used. A child was brought to me a few days ago having actual svphilitic ulcers on the right arm and shoulder. The parents were healthy, and the child had been perfectly so till it was vaccinated. This had been done two weeks previous, and with Dr. Martin's '^ fresh animal lymph."  Able writers and observers declare that a genuine vaccine disease is very similar to syphilis, and Jenner himself asserted that no vaccination was reliable which did not produce erysipelas.  Suppose, however, no such results occur as I have described, have we any reasonable proof that exemption from variola has been assured? I say No I Persons who have been vaccinated twice and three times are attacked with  smallpox , and sometimes within a short period after their vaccination. Dr. A. T. Stanim, after having been vaccinated three times, with due effect, was stricken down with malignant smallpox, while engaged in his professional duties. He barely escaped vri th life. He now without hesitation denominates vaccination an idiotic act and imbe- cility. What does all this vociferous noise about vaccination teach us in regard to its protection? It only holds up to view an inunensely foolish   superstition, which is cherished by medical practitioners.  We find the men who most strenuously uphold vaccination are themselves engaged in selling vaccine virus, or are vaccinators whose business would suffer if this practice should be impaired. They endeavour to make it appear that smallpox epidemics and deaths from the disease have been lessened by vaccination. They sedulously and purposely overlook and disregard the fact that improvements in sanitary regulations have been the factor, and that other epidemics, and not smallpox only, have been greatiy diminished. If we were told that by inoculation with miasma or syphilitic virus, we would lessen zymotic disease or syphilis, it would not be more surprising.*  Let us, however, contemplate the subject from a scientific point of view. What do we transmit into the system when we vaccinate? A poisonous ichor, a heterogeneous substance, a poison by means of which, as Dr. F. Becker declares, " the germ of numberless diseases is planted, which destroy so many lives of children, in Germany, and other countries where vaccination is compm-   sory.   That the child who is vaccinated has a predispontion to other diseases occasioned by it, I will show by the following case, which first called my attention to the matter. E. M., a lad of four years old, perfectly healthy, well-nourished, and never sick, having healthy parents and living in a healthy neighbourhooa, was vaccinated, May 8th, 1878. I performed the operation, and employed fresh cow-lymph, which I bad obtained from Dr. Martin. It did not take effect,^ and I repeated the operation eight days later, usin^ the same animal lymph. Still no effect was obtained. I counselled the parents not to subject the child to another operation till autumn, as so much vaccine virus in the system would predispose him to other diseases. Indeed, two weeks afterward I was summoned to see the boy. I found him in a high fever, with a rash over his body like measles. This subsided on the third day, and I left the child in the mother's care. Two days later I was called Hg^an. The child had a very sore throat; the tonnls on bothjudes were much enlarged, and covered with diphtheritic mem- brane, which extended to the fauces, and appeared to be rapdly increasing. In less than twenty- five hours it had reachM. the larynx and trachea. Despite all known remedies and energetic treatment, the case proved fat"l on the fourth day.   Democbatic Despotism. - There is such a thing 8.8 democratic despotism, and a passion for regulating personal conduct is characteristic of some of the weaker forms of modem radicalism. Such excessive tutelage is almost equally mischievous, whether it be exercised by many or by few. It is retrogression in the guise of prog^ress, and is a sign of decay in the party which espouses it. Mr. Herbert Spencer's a<;ute diagnosis of its many insidious forms is not the least of the great services which he has rendered to political philosophy. - Daily News, July 20.- [What a pity it is that the Daily News does not apply the good sense here exhibited to the question of compulsory vaccination!]  * Dr. Merkel OTerlooks the fact that certain ph^icians do actually reoommend inooulation with Byphilis and diphtheria. smallPOX IN CALCUTTA, 1849-50.  Since the benefit of Taccination has come so seriously into dispute, it is difficult to obtain un frejudiced testimony from hospital authorities, t IS therefore interesting to refer to evidence delivered at times when temper was less likelpr to interfere with scientific accuracy. Here is a passage from the Lancet of March S, 1851, relating to experience in Calcutta : -  *^ We are told that in Europeans the disease was modified by previous vaccination. The most distinct testimony we can find on this point is the account of the cases treated by Dr. Macphersouy in the General Hospital, Calcutta, all the patients being Europeans, and nearly all of them adults. The number admitted from December, 1849, to May 1, 1860, was 76, of whom 20 died and 56 recovered. Dr. Macpherson divided the cases into 46 mild, or modified, and 30 severe, or confluent. Of the confluent, 12 are stated to have been previously vaccinated, and exhibited good cicatrices ; 13 had been vaccinated, but the cicatrices were not well-marked ; 5 only had not been vaccinated. Of 8 children attacked, 6 had been vaccinated. Thus, out of 30 cases of confluent smallpox, of which 20 cases were fatal, no less than 25 had been vaccinated.^'   A THOROUGH-PACED ADVOCATE.  Gosport, July 3, 1882.  To Mr. William Young, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster.  In answer to your post-card, I am of the opinion that all those who oppose Vaccination are TUB Enemies of Mankind. I have the greatest faith in Vaccination as a preventive of smallpox. 1 never yet saw one death from it, nor any ill effects. M. Cogan, SurgeoD-Major,  Army Medical Department.  The benefactors of mankind, in their strife with error and evil, are usually stigmatised as enemies. Mr. Cogan's experience of Vaccination, in never having seen any ill effects, appears to illustrate the observation, '^ None so blind as those who won't see.'' Mr. \oung having forwarded to Mr. Cogan some papers thought likely to modify his judgment, was answered thus : -  Gosport, July 6, 1882. American sentimentality of the usual twaddle. I have vaccinated thousands of British soldiers with lymph from black children with the happiest results. So sure as there is a God in heaven, so is vaccination the greatest blessing that has ever been introduced among the human race. Even the wretched Hindoo acknowledges its benefits.  M. Cogan, S.M., A.M.D.   Character of Subjects of Malignant  smallpox . - Those who have suffered fatally under the malignant form of sraall-pox have, for the most . part, been such as have been careless and dissolute in their habits of life, or have been subject to the operation of debilitating circumstances - sailors, brewers' servants, helpers about stables, and psurish paupers. report of London smallpo3> Hoftpitalf l819"   TO W. HENRY LEATHAM, ESQ., M.P.  Doncaster, June 9, 1882.  Sib, - I take the liberty of asking you, if possible, to be in your place in the House of Commons to give your support to Mr. P. A. Taylor's Bill for the abolition of Compulsory Vaccination.  It seems to me utterly at variance with the spirit of English liberty that this rite, about which there is so much diversity of opinion, and such constant change of opinion among the medical profession, should be forced upon every man's chnd by fear of fine and imprisonment.  If the rite were proved to oe an infallible protection against smallpox, it would be a difiFerent matter if the few were coerced into compliance for the good of the many ; but the fact is that vaccination is found to be no protection against smallpox. The death-rate from the disease is increasing, and there are many hideous risks attached to the operation.  I may mention that in Ampthill, a town completely vaccinated for years, there has recently neen an outbreak of smallpox, in which the death-rate has exceeded that of Great Grimsby, the most severely afflicted town in England during the epidemic of 1871. - Yours very truly,  W. Wilton Pabkin.  Mb. Leatham's Answeb.  12, St. JamesVplace, S.W., June 12, 1882. Sib, - I beg to say that my views entirely differ from yours about vaccination, and I cannot promise Mr. Taylor's Bill any assistance. - Yours truly, W. Henby Lbatham.  Mr. Leatham refrains from stating the reasons for his views, and from meeting Mr. Parkin's statements. We observe a similar disinclination in many Liberal M.P.'s, and we must allow that it is very natural. When people occupy positions about which they are inwardly uncertain and uncomfortable, they avoid discussion and are grate- ful for silence.   Disenchantment in Jennee's Lifetime. - How- ever painful the duty, wo feel ourselves called upon to notice the numerous and accumulating failures of cowpox in preventing smallpox , whether in the natural way, or by inoculation. Our communications on this subject have been numerous j and some of the cases do not appear to have been modified by the previous disease. It is not easy to account for these distressing occurrences ; but were we to hazard a conjecture, we should venture to suggest that it is possible the virus may have become so modified by being confined altogether to the human subject, that its powers of producing the necessary affection of the constitution, which only can be regarded as the test of security, may be so nearly worn out, as to be no longer a certain preventive. Hence the necessity of frequently renewing the cflicacy of vaccination by procuring the virus directly from its original source. This opinion, however, can be regarded in the light of a conjecture only, calculated to excite inquiry; for the real causes of the fact which it is meant to explain cannot be too minutely investigated. London Medical Repository, Jutjr, 1817, in ^iclc entitled "Retrospect of the Progress, of Medical Science," p. 67. \   .   79   DR. GUY ON smallPOX AND VACCINATION.  I AM favoured by a friend with a copy of Dr. Guy's paper read before the Statistical Society on the 20ch inst., and ask to be allowed to make some remarks which I should probably have made had I been present at the Society's meeting.  It is a curious fact that, while the opponents of compulsory Tacciaation, driven by the assertions of the upholders of the law to attack vaccination itself, are constantly told that it is a fnedical question, we should have Doctors Buchanan, Carpenter, and Guy all recently appealing, not to physiological or pathological facts, but to figures - figures which ought to represent facts, but which may be said to do so onl^r in the case of the last ; for Dr. Guy is a statistician, and treats the figures he uses in a scientific manner most completely admirable. In saying this, however, a distinction may be justly drawn between the correct exhibition and correct arithmetical deductions from the substantive numbers and the lessons to be derived from them.  Before commenting on Dr. Guy's lessons, notice must be taken of a very grave omission in his series of figures relating to the nineteenth century. At the outset he states that his figures relate to smallpox deaths in London " between 1629 and 1881, both inclusive, but with breaks presently to be pointed out and described." ..." After the year 1636 . . . with a resumption in 1647. . . . After the year 1831, a break of nine years, yrith a resumption of the returns in their improved form by the Registrar-General in 1838, and in their more mature form in 1841." The important bearing of this last break on the sub- ject in hand at once appears when it is known that the year 1838 was one of severe epidemic smallpox, the number of smallpox deaths amounting to 3,817, as compared with 1,685 in 1806, and 7,912 in 1871. The introduction of the figures relating to the year 1838 would materifdly alter the tone of Dr. Guy's paper, as he would doubtless be ready to admit. But I digress a little to remark on the facts connected with these three severe nineteenth-century epidemics. The first occurred in 1805, when the fame of Jenner as the " exterminator " of smallpox was at its meridian, and so shook it, that in writing to one of his friends, he exclaims: "The town is a foolan idiot I" The second, in 1838, occurred very soon after a Parliamentary Committee had recommended the practical abolition of the National Vaccine Esta- blishment, on the ground that the practice was fully established in public favour and the  smallpox  nearly extinguished. The third, in 1871, occurred immediately after the most loud boastings of the efficiency of the doubly tyrannical law passed in 1867. Dr. Guy, when he leaves  smallpox  for a little dissertation on vaccination, does not inform his hearers with regard to the condition of the population in this respect, but takes the existence - the simple existence - of  vaccination as a proof of its power. Thus, with regard to these three epidemics, when the first occurred, in 1805, a veiy insignificant proportion of the people had been operated on ; in 1838, when the   second occurred, perhaps about one-half ; and when the third occurred, m 1871, about four^fifths of the people had undergone the supposed protective process. Tet the extent and severity differed but little.  To return : after comparing the mortalities of the three centuries, showing how smallpox deaths were greater in the eighteenth than in the seventeenth century, and remarkably less in the nine- teenth, while the deaths from measles showed an increase, as also whooping-cough, both to a very large extent (on which notable fact I may write again). Dr. Guy remarks, "An advocate of vaccination might take his stand upon these numerical contrasts, and treat any further inquiry in the same direction as mere waste of time, ts vaccination," he asks, " a preventive of  smallpox  ? " and answers : " To this question there is - there can be - no answer, except such as is couched in the language of figures." That seems pretty confident ; but he knows that his figures are not all the figures which could be brought to bear upon this question, so I find further on : ** But the remarkable epidemic of smallpox which occurred in 1871 may be brought forward as an argument in favour of a desponding view of the preventive efiicacy of vaccination, assuming vaccination to have been the cause of all the abatement that smallpox has not shared with other maladies. Let us, then, examine the remarkable outbreak by the light thrown upon it by its surroundings." By its surroundings I That is, as appears directly, the relative prevalence of the disorder in the five years preceding and following the epidemic year, as compared with the corresponding years for the epidemic of 1805.* If Dr. Guy had the courage to face the fact that four-fifths of the people who died of smallpox in London in the years preceding and in the years following, as well as in 1871, had been vaccinated, he would not have been reduced to such a condition as this: - " The storm of that year, overleaping all barriers, was speedily followed by a calm as strange as the tempest itself. That atmospheric condition, whatever it may be, to which our epidemics are due, was so favourable to attacks of smallpox, that the barrier of vaccination, though effective in ordinary years, proved insufficient in this ; the more and the less susceptible were alike seized, and the population swept clear for a time (how long P) of almost all possible victims. Then vaccination, a protective in ordinary seasons, resumed its sway, and almost brought about the cessation of the smallpox. I can imagine no better explanation than this.'* A partial repetition of this, with a curiously inconsequent addition, is in the last paragraph of the paper, being the 20th conclusion:- "That, taking a careful and comprehensive view of all the facts that bear upon this question, it is allowable to conjecture [in spite of the fact] that while vaccination does not act as a sufficient protection in epidemic years, it does effectually guard against attacks of smallpox in all other years, and that where it does not protect, it mitigates." This last sentence is what I have termed curiously inconsequent, because there is nothing in the whole of the paper bearing in any  • Yet the mortality, in 1838, of 3,817, was in the following year only 634.   80   THE VAOCINA1?ION IKqUIREIL   way on the question of mitigation, which is a question of fatality, or proportion of deaths to cases of disease, and not a proportion of deaths to population, or mortalities, witn which the paper exclusively deals. Is there not something in Shakespeare about a conclusion being lame and impotent? Gboboe S. Gibbs, F.S.S.  Darlington, June 20, 1882.   THE POSITION IN LEICESTER.  [From the Midland Free Press, June 24.]  I HEAB that another case of smallpox has occurred in Leicester, and has been promptly removed into the hospital, and thus the danger of an epidemic of the disease is removed. During the last year or two several isolated cases have broken out, in which the disease has been brought into the town by tramps. But in every instance the sufferers have been removed, and the public safety has been secured. With such precautions as the authorities are now able to take, it is next to impossible that an outbreak of smallpox should occur in this town. For this immunity from danger from a loathsome disease we have to thank the Sanitary Committee, who persisted in their application for parliamentary powers to ensure the instant notification of the outbreak of infectious disease, both from inhabitants and medical men. Now, in view of the fact that the authorities have thus protected us from the probability of attack from this disease, what pretence can there be for insisting upon the exe- cution of the Vaccination Act against those who honestly disbelieve in itP Why are several thousands of children every year to be "protected '' from a danger which cannot and does not exist in our midst P" If the disease occurred constantly, like scarlet fever or measles, if there were no means of isolation, and vaccination was a certain preventive measure, then there might be some reason for enforcing the law. But the reason does not exist, and it seems to me both ridiculous and intolerable to force the Vaccination Act upon everybody willy- nilly. Hardly a week passes but I note a number of cases of persons hauled before the magistrates and fined for breaches of the Vaccination Act. I begin to think it is time our Bench took stock of the position, and looked at the inconsistency of the proceeding. The medical profession tell us that vaccination is only a protection for a few years, and that after childhood the operation should be performed agiun. Then I want to know, seeing that smallpox does not arise spontaneously, but must be introduced into the town, what is the danger to which the infants in Leicester are exposed in relation to smallpox, which warrants the enforcement of the Vaccmation Act upon them? If the Bench must needs inflict a penalty upon all cases brought before them, then in the name of common sense let them reduce the fine to a shilling, or less, and not impose a penalty of ten shillings upon working men who wish to protect their offspnng from the danger of a more insidious disease than that for which vaccination is supposed to be a prophylactic.   THE SYPHILISED FRENCH SOLDIEKS.  To the Editor of " La Science Libre.''  Deab Mons. de Fonviellb, - In fulfilment of my promise to send you full particulars of the recent syphilisation of fifty-eight recruits in our Algerine colony by vaccination, I am now able to state the facts as they occurred, and will do so with the strictest regard to truth, avoiding alike unfounded exaggerations on the one side and interested deniius on the other.  On Dec. 30, 1880, the young soldiers of the garrison of Algiers who has not already been vaccinated, were conducted to the Dej Hospital to be vaccinated in accordance with the xnilitary regulations. Two army surgeons operated. the vaccine matter was extracted from a couple of children under two months old, apparently in exceUent health, and in whom the lyniph appeared to be equally genuine and normal. Those vaccinated from one of the children presented no spedal incident, but the fifty-eight soldiers ysc- cmated from the Spanish infant developed in a few weeks the characters of an infection which could not be mistakenall were attacked with syphilis. The marks on the arm were disc^uieting, and the ulcerations were so threatening that the soldiers were, some ten weeks after the operation, sent to hospital. In a month all except six were dismissed ; but they were soon compelled to return ; syphilis had affected their constitution. Some had ulcers for four or five months; one had not recovered in the eighth month ; others had affections of the lips, tongue, or palate. Some showed discoloration of the skin, some had violent headache. Affections of the teeth and gums and of the^ joints presented themselves to my observation, in addition to the usual symptoms of this dangerous and di^usting malady. I also noticed decay of the hair, eve- brows, and lashes. Need it surprise us that soldiers thus treated by State medical regulations fail to prove that they are each equal to a dozen of their vigorous Arab foes, the redoubtable Bou-Amema P* The facts are public and undeniable. The cause is known. On whom ought the responsibility to restP Certidnly on the State military regulations. True, the regulations require vaccination to be attended with every guarantee of security. This sounds very plausible^ but, unfortunately, these same regulations omit to explain what are the securities and guarantees whi<m ought to be taken and enforced. In an infant of two months, in whom hereditary syphilis has not hitherto shown any visible symptoms, how is it possible to recognise the infection of the vaccine virus by that of syphilis, or to detect the exact time at which the adndxture of the two viruses takes place in the infant's constitution? Can any microscopic examination give any sign, even were tho military authorities in possession of the necessary requisites?  And thus, at a time when the utility of vaccination is widely discussed in medical circles, our military regulations, more knowing^ than the faculty, and more absolute in their infallibility,  * Hera follow the names and numbers of the infected soldiers.   X   .   81   have constituted themselves the ffuarantors of Jenner and the apostles of his Taccinal panacea. We are not now proposing to enter into discus&ion with the current vaccine theory ; we shall merely state it, premittng that the medical faculty is itself divided on the vaccinal question, and none of them in these days will dare to maintain the old claim of infallibility. Protection is now held with reserves. The preservative, we are told, is for some temperaments only; and in certain cases, not strictiy specified, it does not endure beyond a certain period. On some persons it is admitted to have no preservative enect. It is even held that the vacane simply modifies certain zymotic and epidemic affections, and that it is liable to appear later in life in the form of typfaoid and other fevers, and also of consumption ; for these maladies have become much more frequent since the general instilment of vaccine disease into the population. the cowpox may be an article of faith in the military creed, but it counts today a fair number of heresiarchs, whose authority is at least equal to that of the defenders of the practice. Britannia, the great propagandist of Dr. Jenner's opinions, has rendered  vaccination  obligatory, but her statistics show that she is in no respect specially exempt ; for smallpox appears and oecomes epi- demic wherever her swelling centres of population are deprived of their due meed of light and air and ssnitary measures of cleanliness. The rising revolt of the medical mind in Switzerland, America, Spain, and elsewhere against the pretended infallibUity of the virus of the cow, is itself a statistic which ought to make our military regulators hesitate in their arbitrary enforcement of vaccination in the army ; the rule is tyrannical, and imprudent even to audacity. What is wanted is sanitary improvement in the barrack. The true remedy and protective is salubrity - fresh air, more space, less filth, washing, removal of ill-odours.  Vaccination we do notreouire, for Br. Jenner's " immaculate conception " leads at times to results which begin to make us doubt the immaculate theory in Science as much as in the Church. It is the duty of a Republican Government - of a Qovernment which proclaims and professes freedom-to unchain the yoke of this vaccinal compulsion. We do not ask for its suppression, all we require is that belief in vaccination and belief in the sacrifice of the mass should be placed on the same level ; let those who believe attend, and let those who disbelieve stay away.  For the unmerited sufferings inflicted upon them, these fifty-eight unfortunate soldiers have no compensation and no appeal, and, in addition, they have to suffer from the evils of public notoriety. Had they been wounded by the enemy, they would have been entitled to rewards and honours. But who can now restore to them their pristine health? Why should we make our soldiers convalescents? What ought to be dearer to a commander than the health and strength of his troops P- Dr. P. A. Desjabdin.  Aug. 1, 1881.   The London Homceopathic Hospital. - We are glad to learn that vaccination has ceased to form any part of the business of this Hospital.   FROM RUFUS K. NOTES, M.D.  The Philadelphia Medical Reporter^ of June 14, contains an account of the death from vaccination of Dr. James D. Jennings, of Trenton, New Jersey. It is admitted that be died from blood- poisoning. His brother doctors excuse his death oy saying that either the lancet was foul, or else his system was in an unhealthy state at the time of the operation.  On asking a man recentiy, who was marked with smallpox, whether he had been vaccinated, he replied that he had a sore arm from  vaccination when eleven years old; that he was sick from '' varioloid " at thirteen, and from confluent smallpox at twenty-four. His physician told him that his last attack was consequent upon yellow fever two years previously having killed the effect of the vaccination and the varioloid !  Vaccinators seem constantly to forget that it is absolutely impossible to prove that any vaccination has l>een, is, or ever will be '^ successful or protective " against  smallpox . Vaccinated persons must be exposed m all ways to smallpox, or live under those conditions which are believed to engender it, before their vaccination is put to the test. If such persons so exposed and so conditioned do not taKe smallpox, it is no manner of proof that their vaccination was the why of their exemption. Those vaccinated persons who escape smallpox are just those who would have escaped, and all the more surely escaped, had they not been vaccinated.  People are beginning to discover that there are two sides to the vaccination question. Most people, however, suppose that there is but one side, and, unhappily, it is not the side known to us anti-vaccinators.  Lynn, Mass., June 29, 1882. R. K. N.   Dr. Guy's Statistics. - I do not see any forcible argument in Dr. Gay. He admits sanitation as an antagonist of smallpox, but snrely he does not mean to assert that vaccination is a preservative against the natural consequences of life amongst filth ! Dr. Guy concludes with the conjecture or admission that vaccination "is an insufficient protection in epidemic years'* - i.e., it fails where most needed. He adds, that " it effectually guards against attacks of smallpox in all other years " - then why do the doctors report cases weekly of smallpox among the vaccinated? And that ** where vaccination does not protect, it mitigates " - then why do deaths from smallpox occur weekly among the vaccinated? What is the degree of mitigation that results in death ? Is it possible to admit that such statements are arguments? - D.  Mb. George Tompsitt appeared before the Edmonton Bench on July 10 to answer for neglecting to vaccinate his child, and was fined 10s. and 13s. costs. In a letter to the Tottenham Herald Mr. Tompsitt observes : - " I went to the Court with ample evidence in support of my plea of reasonable excuse, which the Act provides may be made. The magistrates, however, would not hear the evidence, but one of them was pleased to remark that he * believed in vaccination ! ' Herein lies the misfortune with which prosecuted anti- vaccinators have to contend. It is impossible to get an impartial hearing from those whose belief is contrary to our own."   82      FROM CHARLES W. ROHNER, M.D.,  VICTORIA.  Benalla, Victoria, Feb. 15, 1882.  To the Secretary of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination.  Dear Sir, - My friend, Mr. W. H. Terry, of Melbourne, having found it compulsory on him to decline the office of correspondent for Victoria to your society, has asked me to undertake the duty in his stead. I comply with great pleasure, as years of professional experience made me not only suspect the benefits conferred by vaccination, but also detest the compulsory clauses of an Act, the fatal operation of which I saw exemplified in my official capacity as public vaccinator. More than fourteen years ago I was suspended from my office because I could not consent to vaccinate during the hot Australian summer months, finding that during that period vaccination very often produced erysipelas on the arms vaccinated, besides other complications of diseases both of the cutis and of the glandular system generally, including the lungs. After a suspension of twelve months, I was reappointed, but took the responsibility of the billet only on condition of being allowed to vaccinate when I thought proper, which privilege (a true and sig- nificant privatio legis) was readily granted to me. Some years after, and in consequence of a special study made by me into the facts and philosophy of the Jennerian discovery, I resigned my vaccinatorship altogether, although it involved a loss annually of some £80. The influence produced on my practice generally by this public resignation, and by some eye-opening letters of mine on the subject in question, was such that my practice sank at once to a bare living. Still, knowing the truth, and wishing to preserve the title of a healer intact, I had no alternative but to submit to this unjust persecution in the expectation that in after years I would reap the reward of my anti-vaccination views and advocacy of the truth.  You will see from my account thus far that vaccination out here in Victoria is still in force, and all the rigour of the compulsory law is brought to bear upon vaccination infidelity, on the principle, I suppose, that the Pope is more respected at a distance than in Itome itself. Few people here, indeed, know much about the important and widespread agitation against vaccination in England, of which you have the honour of being the prime cause. Evidently the race of the Howards is not yet extinct in England, and I take the spirit and intelligence of your advocacy as a sure promise of your ultimate success.  The doctors in this Colony, partly through my correspondence in the newspapers, and partly through information from home, have adopted the Warlomont system of vaccination, which, as you know, is not vaccination in the Jenneiian sense at all; and hundreds of people are now found stupid enough to pay from 5s. to 10s. for each inoculation of the genuine and pure ciilf- lymph I Such is the credulity of unenlightened humanity I I may further state that some six months ago an inquiry was held into the present oneration of the Vaccination Act by a Royal Cfommission ; the only good result of which consisted, singular to say, in enforcing the rule not   to vaccinate during the summer months, actually goinff back to my recommendation fourteen or mteen years ago ! But even this rule was lately broken, in consequence of two vessels, the Garontie and the Mirzapore, coming into Hobson's Bay with a few sporadic cases of  smallpox  on board; the scare about the consequent and unavoidable spread of smallpox running so high under the fostering influence of a blind Board of Health and an interested profession, that thousands of human sheep fell into the hands of the vaccinating slaughterers; but it is expected in better informed circles, medical and scientific, that this reckless resort to blood-poisoning will shortly produce reaction - first, in consequence of its manifest inutility; and second, through the production of numerous cases of serious illness and disease ; and that the result will be either a modification or a final abrogation of the compul- sory clauses of our compulsory Vaccination Act>  You are, perhaps, aware that compulsory blood- poisoning is not decreed in the statute-book of our sister colony of INew South Wales ; but the Victorian authorities are trying their utmost, by open accusations of neglect of sanitary precautions, to compel New South Wales to follow their evil example. I trust they may not succeed, and I am glad to observe that there are in Sydney some active agitators against any measures in the wrong direction.  With these introductory remarks on the present state of vaccination and anti-vaccination in Vic- toria, I beg to remain, - Yours faithfully,  Charles W. Rohnbr, M.D.   A VERY UNREASONABLE EXCUSE.  Thk Leicester DaHy Post of July 8th gives the following report of a case at the Borough Police- court, before the Bench of Magistrates : -  George Allcroft was summoned for refusing to have his child vaccinated. Defendant pleaded that he had reasonable excuse for refusing to comply with the Act. He was fully convinced that his first two children died from illness brought about by vaccination, and, therefore, wishing to preserve the health of his present child, he would not allow it to imdergo the operation. - The Mayor said the Bench respected defendant's position, but had their duty to perform. - Defendant admitted that, but asked that, under the circumstances, a lenient fine might be inflicted. He thought the justice of the case would be thus met. - The Mayor said the magistrates could not do less than fine him 10s. - Defendant said that his wife had been ill for a fortnight, and he could not now pay the money. - He was told to make arrangements with the vaccination ofiicer.   REPORT OF THE COLOGNE CONGRESS.  the following resolution was passed and ordered to be published : -  '^The Executive Committee of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory  vaccination desire to express their gratitude to Dr. Hubert Boens, B.Sc., for his careful and comprehensive report of the Cologne Congress of 1881, and their admiration of the energetic and disinterested manner in which he has carried out his arduous task."   THE VACCINATION INQUIKER.   83   DOES VACCINATION INJURE THE  TEETH?  (From the Auckland Weekly Netos, March 19,  1881.)  In a letter I mentioned that in England earlj decay of the teeth is among the eidls attributed to vaccination, and that in the early days of the colony the Maoris had excellent teeth. So much was this the cose that a gentleman who lived in Waikato, who had lost some of his teeth, was given by them the name of " niho tunga " - bad teeth. Now that the Maoris are vaccinated they are as subject to toothache as those born of European parentage. Recently I read in a history of "The Mutiny of the Bounty/" by J. Barrow, that the Pitcaim Islanders, the descendants of the mutineers of the Bounty , were unvaccinated, and without exception possessed teeth beautifully white and regular. It struck me that this showed a favourable opportunity of testing the theory of vaccination being the cause of the nresent deterioration of, teeth, as the Pit- cairn Islanders removed to Norfolk Island would probably be vaccinated, and, if so, how about their teeth? The courtesy of the Rev. R. H. Codrington, Chaplain of Norfolk Island, has given me the desired information, and vaccination being a question of vital importance, I beg to offer it to your readers. Many of your readers who have Deen long in the colony do not know how public opinion has changed about vaccination during the last twenty years. Mr. Gladstone's Government will probably pass a Bill to abolish compulsory vaccination. J. C. J.  Te Haroto, Raglan, March 14, 1881.  In the " Mutiny of the Bounty,'* p. 358, Mr. Collie, the snrgeon of the Blossom, remarks : -  " Nothing is more extraordinary in the history of the island than the uniform good health of the children; the teething is easily got over; they have no bowel complaints, and are exempt from those contagions diseases which affect children in large communities. He offered to vaccinate the children, as well as the grown persons, but they declined, the risk of infection from smallpox being too small to render that operation necessary." P. 322 : " Their teeth are beautifully white, like the finest ivory, and perfectly regular, without a single exception."  " Te Haroto, Auckland, N.Z., January 8, 1881. " To the Rev. R. H. Codrington, Norfolk Island :  Rev, Sir, - May I ask the favour of your informing me whether the Norfolk Islanders, the descendants of the Pitcaim Islanders, are still unvaccinated  ? 2. If unvaccinated, does the quoted description apply to their teeth ? By answering these questions, you will much oblige, J. C. Johnstone." ' "Norfolk Island, February 10, 1881. Sir,- I have inquired, in accordance with your request, and I have ascertained that the Pitcaim Islanders were vaccinated at Pitcaim Island some little time be- fore 1850. All on the Island were then vaccinated either by the doctor of a whaleship, or, after he was gone, by one another. From that time they were not vaccinated till some six or seven years ago by Dr. Watling, then medical officer here. In the second point of inquiry, 1 think that it may be said that the description of the teeth of the Pitcaimers by no means applies to their descendants generally, " R. H. Codrington."   VACCINATION IN CALIFORNIA.  I HAVE conversed with many physicians, and find that hardly two agree as to the best method of sue- cessful vaccination, or to its ultimate efficacy in preventing smallpox. One says arm to arm; another calf -lymph only; another, two removes from the calf is the best ; whilst all admit an element of uncertainty, excepting the fee for performance. Dr. Lawlor, the quarantine officer of San Francisco, says vaccination is worth one dollar, whilst his predecessor operated at 25 cents a head ; and Dr. Lawlor's work is taken for the better, as it costs more.  The Chinese here do not like vaccination, and veiy few are successfully vaccinated, for they suck out the virus as soon as the rite is performed. They came near having a mutiny on one of the steamers where vaccination was enforced, and only sub- mitted after a show of rifles.  Many say to me, " Why, my child cannot go to school if he is not vaccinated !" I reply, "Keep the child at home, then, until the smallpox scare has subsided." Some physicians, who do not be- lieve in vaccination, make a puncture, forget to insert the virus, and give a certificate in due forai.  C. M. Hunt.  West Berkeley, Alameda Co., California, June 11, 1882.   Da. Andrew Buchanan, formerly Professor of the Institutes of Medicine in Glasgow University, died on July 9 in his 84th year. His recent correspondence with Kentigem in these columns will not be forgotten.  In the Boston Journal, accounted the leading newspaper in New England, we were pleased to observe an excellent letter from Mr. Wm. Tebb on July 6. Vaccination is as firmly established in the United States as in this country, but there is apparently a much greater williugness to submit it to discussion in the press.  A Fable disposed of. - At a recent discussion in the Fleet Street Forum, a speaker, in proof of the benefit of re-vaccination, stated that Messrs. Smith & Son, the railway booksellers, employed 800 hands, of whom 798 submitted to re-vaccination, and that all escaped the disease except the couple of obstinate nonconformists. Mr. George Bone, ever apt at inquiry, thereon wrote to Messrs. Smith 4 Bon to ascertain whether the fact was so. He received the following answer : -  " 186, Strand. July 10, 1882. *  " There is no truth in the statement respecting which you wrote to us. - W. H. Smith & Son."  Opposition to Compulsory Medicine. - I have been very busy trying to found an Anti-Compul- sory Medical Society, which, since Saturday, has got 120 members, and is growing. Yesterday I proposed a vote of want of confidence in the Parliamentary Bills Committee of the British Medical Association, the source whence all these compul- sory suggestions have arisen. This was at the annual meeting of the Lancashire and Cheshire branch of the British Medical Association, at Chester. Mr. Ernest Hart, the editor of the journal, was down from London, and, of course, defended liimself and the Committee of which he is chairman, against my attack. My motion was carried, however, the voting in its favour being as 3 to 1. He appealed to me to modify it, which I Would not do. - Dr Wm. Cartes, Liverpool, to Mrs. E. C. W. Elmy, June 30, 1882. FROM ROBEET FERGUSON, ESQ., M.P. FOR CARLISLE.  Mentone, Dec. 26, 1881.  Deab Sie, - Thanks for your letter, which has been sent on to me here. The subject is one to which I attach great importance. I have, at least, sufficient doubt to prevent me from voting in favour of Compulsory Vaccination, and I carefully note any case that seems to me to be sufficiently au- thenticated bearing on the subject. I may say as much as this, that unless Vaccination can be so conducted as to make the communication of disease practically impossible, I do not think any State ha^ a right to enforce it ; and unless I have a sufficient answer given to this, I should feel it my duty to vote against it. - Yours faithfully,  Robert Ferguson.  Mr. W. Adair, Maryport.   Variola. - Dr. Tinsley, an English practitioner in Cuba, alleges that vaccine virus, after passing through a negro's system, is valueless for the white race. - British Mediccd Journal, June 24.  Mr. Alfred Freeman, L.R.C.P., L.M., M.R.C.S., of Wolverhampton, writing in the Evening Express, of June 15, published in that town, testifies, *^ I am sorry to say I have known several children die from vaccination ; the cases I could prove on the evidence of respectable people."  Vaccino-Prurigo. - Professor Jonathan Hutchinson, in his "Clinical Lectures," gives the particulars of fifteen cases of prurigo arising from vaccination, one of which died of the disease, while others have been '* veiy marked cases and of long persistence."  St. Pancras Anti - Compulsory Vaccination Society. - A meeting was held on June 30 to consider the formation of a St. Pancras Society, Mr. William Tebb, chairman of the Executive Committee of the London Society, and other parish- ioners taking part in the proceedings. In was concluded that such a society was necessary to give local effect to the principles of the parent society, and that it would lead to the formation of similar societies in adjacent parishes. Mr. A. Heam, of 15, Countess-road, Kentish-town, was appointed hon. secretary ; and Mr. C. T. Wickham, 48, Pratt Street, Camden-town, treasurer. A committee was elected, and a variety of rules, &c., passed. A public meeting will probably be held in the course of October.  Opinion in Bedfordshire. - Mr. S. Ashby and a friend obtained 1,200 signatures to a petition in favour of Mr. P. A. Taylor's Bill in and around Kempston, and Mr. Hull 800 in a part of Bedford. Mr. Hull believes that nearly every householder would have signed if applied to. Mr. Ashby writes, " The major part of the petitioners are strongly opposed to vaccination, whilst those of them who are less decided, are perfectly willing that the practice should be optional. There have been numerous cases of injury in this district. Some of the experiences related during my canvass were most painful and touching. Numbers who have scarcely bread enough to eat would give their last penny to be rid of the foul and cruel operation. How unspeakably tyrannous and hard are compulsory disease and death ! "  Good Sense in an Odd Place.- In the Family Doctbr for July 1, we read: - "At last the important subject of Compulsory Vaccination is to   be re-opened, and, we hope, satisfactorily disposed of in the House of Commons. The question is not whether vaccination possesses any prophylactic efficacy, but whether the State is to persist in forcing upon an unconvinced minority the convictions of the majority. We have before expressed our view of the case, which is simply that whether or not vaccination procures immunity from  smallpox  (which, by -the bye, is not at all clearly demon- strated), the State can have no right to compel those who honestly disbelieve in its efficacy, to have their offspring vaccinated, at the risk of consracting other and more dreadful diseases than tmall-pox."  How Prestige is Worked.- A favourite method of recommending fancies under the name of science is to canonise some noisy quack, and to have him represented in lands where he is indif- ferently known as an authority, whose words are to be accepted with pious subservience. Thus we have paraded before us a scientific saint in America, another in France, another in Germany, and so on. In London one starry quack appears to be well- nigh extingfuished, whilst another is waning, although his beams still continue to dazzle the Continent. It will require much shouting of hosannas to succeed in canonising the saint, who proposes to "vaccinate" consumption into us. But if it is a praiseworthy thing to do, it ought to be done openly, and not under the disguise of cow or calf. - D.  Vaccination in England in 1855. - The address of the Council of the Epidemiological Society esta- blishes the fact that the Compulsory Vaccination Act has been a failure. It appears that in many populous places it has been almost entirely disregarded ; in the Liverpool Union, for example, the births were 9,150, but the vaccinations of children under one year of age only 5,268 ; in the Newport Union (Monmouthshire) there were 1,586 births and 634 vaccinations ; and in the Lambeth Union 5,221 births and 1,992 vaccinations. We apprehend that throughout the metropolis the deficiency of vaccinations in comparison with births has not been so strongly marked as in the cases cited ; but that hitherto, at least, the Act has not succeeded in repressing smallpox is evident from a fact , stated in the " Address," that during last year the mortality from this disease amounted to nearly 700 - ^a larger number of deaths than occurred in 1849 or 1850. - Medical Circular, March, 1855.  " Reasonable excuse " is conceded in the Vaccination Act, but is never allowed in administration. Mr. R. N. Sheldrick, writing in the Northampton^ shire Q^iardian of July 8, observes : - " When I appeared to answer a summons for non-compliance with the Vaccination Act, I was not permitted to explain or to give any * reasonable excuse or to make any defence whatever. My protest was met by the stereotyped reply that the magistrate had no discretion.' This I promptly challenged, retorting that the bench appeared to have adopted quite a mechanical system in dealing with these cases, and that it was high time that the magistrates themselves began to protest from the bench against vaccination. The plea of irresponsibility put forth by magistrates in dealing with vaccination cases is, I respectfully submit, neither dignified nor true. I hold that the magi- strates are bound in common fairness to hear and consider the grounds of defence or reasonable excuse which a defendant may have to offer, and that to refuse this is an abuse of authority."   He who knows onlj hii own side of the eaae, knows little of that.- J. Stuam Mill. Prejudice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.- Avbkbt Db Ybks.   Dire Uaaittatinn litmiira   ;fljicL dffejcdtk SteULieiUi,   Vol. IV., No. 42.]   SEPTEMBER, 1882.   [Pbicb Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.   The triumph of our friends in Switzerland affords occasion for hearty congratulation. Satis- factory in itself, it is still more satisfactory as a pledge of victory in wider lands, and as affording powerful incitement to persist in those labours by which victory in Switzerland was ensured. The majority against centralised and intensified compulsion was overwhelming, but it was not obtained by hap-hazard, or without great exertion on the part of those who recognise the futility of vaccination against smallpox and its mischiefs as a corrupter of the people's blood. The truth was proclaimed and iterated, and the result was the prohibition of the projected iniquity by four to one. We observe that attempts are made to minimise the significance of the Swiss vote against vaccination. It is said that the rejected legislation involved other objectionable provisions - which is true ; but vaccination was beyond question its leading characteristic, as anyone may discover who refers to the mani- festoes issued TpTO and c<m. It is also said that enactments in favour of vaccination exist in the majority of the cantons - which is also true ; but the fair expectation is that the national rejection of compulsory vaccination will presently lead to the repeal of the said local- enactments. It is natural for the advocates of vaccination to endeavour to diminish the importance of the overwhelming defeat to which they have been sub- jected ; but we cannot allow them to forget that when the compulsory law was promulgated, and supposed to be established, we were called upon to recognise the wisdom of the Swiss, and their superiority to our ridiculous scruples, physiological and political, in connection with vaccination. If the law, therefore, when promulgated, was token to represent our humiliation, surely the same law, when ignominiously overthrown, must justify our exultation.   We like Dr. Alfred Carpenter. There is a power of insolence in him that is pungent as ammonia. Holding forth at Worcester the other day to the British Medical Association, he recom  mended that the report of the Association upon smallpox in 1839 should be reprinted and again distributed throughout the land : -  ''For it utterly demolishes all the arguments which are still brought against vaccination by. those mischievous individuals who prey upon the weak minds of those who find funds for the anti-  vaccination craze, and who provide the funds to pay the salaries of those whose interest it is to Keep that wicked agitation alive."  Here we have what has been described as " the lie at a venture ; " and it is not difficult to imagine Dr. Carpenter fulfilling the part of accuser with, '' Well, if it is not true, it ought to be, which comes to the same thing.*'   Many vaccinators take it hard when their practice is assigned to lucrative consideradons. Dr. Andrew Clark, who is of a judicial temper, and can endure " the other side of the question," lost patience altogether when on one occasion the lucrative imputation was advanced ; but what does he think of its application to those whose opposition to vaccination is signalised by nothing save labour, sacrifice, and courage? It is not surprising that, after the manner of accusing spirits, we find Dr. Carpenter in the shameless possession of the motives he invents and imputes. Our wicked and mischievous agitation, he says, is kept alive by mercenary wretches, who draw their salaries from the pockets of the weak and crazy. It goes without saying that Dr. Carpenter is an enthusiast for the extension and maintenance of vaccination, but how does he propose to achieve his end? W^hy, in no other way than by scheming to make heavier drafts on the public purse ! A great mistake, he says, was made in throwing the provision for vaccination upon the Poor-law Boards : -  "Nothing has interfered with the thorough performance of vaccination so much as placing its machinery in the hands of a body whose great object has been,by means of the ngents em|.l""yed, to get the action carried out in a cheap manner, rather than in an effectual one- a body which has been in the past more intent upon reducing the charge upon the current pior-rate than in protecting the public from the evils of smallpox.' This pardmonj towards the ministers of the Tacdne rite it is proposed to remedy, said Dr. Carpenter, in this wise : -  '^ The Royal Commission, upon which I have had the privilege of acting, has unanimously recommended that this anomaly should be removed, and that the machinery for ef&cient vaccination should be altogether separated from the management of the paupers of the country, and placea in the hands of the Sanitary Authorities."  We are thus to be vaccinated by force and to pay the price determined by our vaccinators I It is a nice scheme, a very nice scheme ; but Dr. Carpenter and the unanimous Royal Commission may live to realise the observation of Burns concerning "the best laid schemes o* mice and   men.   One of the notes of true science is the general assent it commands ; but such assent vaccination has never obtained, and b further off than ever. There is scarcely a detail of its theory and practice which, approved of by one authority, is not disapproved of by another. Nor are these contradictions limited to matters subsidiary, but extend to essentials.. Hence, when we enter into debate with an advocate of vaccination, we insist, as a preliminary, that he deGne his pox. Vaccination is not one thing, but several things, and it is folly to argue where the postulates are undetermined. There is a large party of vaccinators, known as Calf Lymphers, who swear by cowpox, and ascribe all disasters and failures to the use of other forms of virus; and so persistent has been their advocacy, that they have compelled the Government to provide what is supposed to be cowpox as an alternative to the mixed pox in currency. On the other hand, there is another party who hold that cowpox is nothing but smallpox inoculated on the cow, and have reduced their conviction to practice. Dr. A. Carpenter, in his praise of the 1830 Report, observed that, "it conclusively establishes the identity of human  smallpox  and cow  smallpox ;" adding that Ceely, who established the said identity, " would in any other country have been decorated with a string of honours of the highest order of merit." Well, just a year ago. Dr. Martin, of Boston, denounced cow  smallpox  before the same Medical Association as " an abomination " ; Sir Thomas Watson ascribes the increasing prevalence of smallpox to its use ; and Dr. Cameron, M.P., says it would be as easy to produce a gooseberry bush by stunting an oak, as to obtain cowpox by inoculating cows with smallpox. Yet Dr. Martin's abomination, Sir Thomas Watscn's generator of smallpox, and   Dr. Cameron's impossibility are by Dr. Carpenter asserted to be ''conclusively established" by Ceely in the 1839 Report, which, he adds, ought to be reprinted and distributed throughout the land for our confusion. We reply. Reprint and distribute the Report by all means. Why should we object? It is for the Calf Lymphers to answer it, and the more furious the fray, the better will it serve our purpose. Vaccination exists as a mystery imposed on popular ignorance, and whatever tends to dissipate that ignorance makes for our advantage. Our desire is to bring vaccination under through discussion, confident that it cannot survive the ordeal. The truth about vaccination will be the death of vaccination. And in this assurance we cheerfully overlook Dr. Carpenter's insolence, congenital and ineradicable, for the service he renders in hastening matters to a critical issue.   Yet more do we owe to Dr. A. Carpenter. In a letter to the ^ho he writes : -  "I am totally opposed to the prindple of sending people to prison because they do not pay the fines which they have incurred for breaking the laws of the land. It is to my mind a wrong way to effect the, object which is sought ; for I would give power to the Magistrate to separate the parent from the child for a short space of time, and have the operation performed in the justice-room, and as soon as the surgeon informed the Magistrate that the child was vaccinated, I would let the parent go free."  We have heard something like this before from Dr. Carpenter, but we are pleased to have it thus delivered - curt and authentic. It will serve our purpose admirably in proving plainly to the people upon what sort of legislation certain medical men are set, and how they are prepared to sweep aside every principle and tradition of liberty as vanities. • Qrant Dr. Carpenter's demand, and what conceivable exercises of despotism may not be justified? Fortunately it is unneces- sary to argue the matter. The significance of Dr. Carpenter's project lies in its revelation of temper, of ignorance of human nature, and of practical incapadty. He has long meditated the enforcement of vaccination, and yet has not contrived to bring his project into workable shape ! Having captured and vaccinated a child, there would be more to follow. As he says : -  "It would be necessary to take care of the child until the vesicles had completed their term, otherwise the parent would be so reckless of his child's welfare that he would be sure to try and make mischief out of a very trivial operation."  For Dr. Carpenter to complete his legislation, it would therefore be requisite to provide for the   .   87   arrest and supervision of the mother, or the provision of a wetrnurse " until the vesicles had completed their term.*' The child might die under such handling, but it is not difficult to imagine a Sangrado like Dr. Carpenter saying, '' Better far that a child should die, than live to incur the risk of smallpox." Obvious it is that vaccination by force, like so many other of the short and easy prescriptions of despotism, would prove far from short and easy in practice.   What may be described as general ignorance, or lop-sided information, is the characteristic of many of the champions of vaccination. For instance, Dr. Guy recently delivered an elaborate lecture on London smallpox, in which Londoners were dealt with as a constant quality through 250 years, varied only as to increase of mass and the introduction of vaccination, serenely unconscious that he was committing a prodigious anachronism. Again, Dr. Sweeting the other day revealed to the Metropolitan Asylums Board, and the Board to the public, that John Hunter was Jenner's uncle. And again. Dr. John Scott has published a lecture to Manchester working-men on "  smallpox  and Vaccination," so strewn with mis- statements as to matters of fact, that it would take a discourse as long as the original to set nght. Not to refer to trifles, his account of Jenner is in almost every detail more or less fabulous. He represents him as ''slowly but surely, by dint of facts, winning his way " against ridicule and opposition, until, in " the upshot, he was proved to be right, and almost everyone came round to his side." A statement like this is not 'only untrue, but grotesquely untrue. Jenner from the outset- 1800-2- was received with acclamation as the saviour of mankind from smallpox, and during the remaining twenty years of his life he underwent a steady course of discredit, as failure after failure was recorded, and attested against vaccination. As the poor man wrote in 1823- the year of his death- "Never was I involved in so many perplexities." Destitute of any critical faculty, any cock-and-bull story that appears to contribute to the terror of smallpox and the glory of vaccination is recited by Dr. Scott with unhesitating credulity. Thus we have the stock Mexican anecdote : -  " When the Spaniards conquered Mexico, they brought the smallpox to the New World. It swept like fire over the prairies, from the eastern to the western shores, leaving its path strewn with the dead bodies of the natives. It smote down three-and-a-half millions of the people, and killed them so fast that there was no one left to bury them."   Dr. Scott's Mexican topography is original, but his statistics have been so often repeated that if repetition made truth they would long ago have become true. As, however, Professor Vogt asks of similar Indian statistics, we ask of these poor Mexicans : - " W^ho counted them ? " A census of 3,500,000 dead, whom none were left to bury, must have been a difficult operation, and who certified the disease ?   We refer to another instance of Dr. Scott's superfluity of recklessness, because he undertakes to answer a question often asked - namely. Who are responsible for the imperfectly- vaccinated who die of smallpox? First we are assured that the country is saved from smallpox by its admirable system of vaccination, and then when smallpox breaks out we are told that the epi- demic is due to imperfect vaccination. Thus, Dr. A. Carpenter says : -  " Mr. P. A. Taylor states that miany thousands of persons died in 1871-72 who had been vaccinated. This fallacy has been exposed over and over again, but, like many similar fallacies, Mr. Taylor reiterates it as if it were fact. The vaccination in most of these cases was in name only."  Was vaccination in name only ! But as good money was paid for the vaccination, what shall we say of the vaccinators? Who are the impostors? Here b Dr. Scott's answer : -  ^'The right of vaccinating should be taken away from all doctors in private practice. Mostly all the bad vaccination, and much of the discredit which vaccination has fallen into, are owing to them. In too many cases they are forced to please the parent as to how the child is to be vaccinated. The parish medicfd officers have the best supply of lymph in the country."  If Dr. Scott were right, we should find  smallpox  most prevalent among the privately vaccinated, that is to say among the upper and middle classes ; but it is almost needless to assert that the reverse is the fact. In the improved sanitary conditions of these classes, smallpox is practically unknown. smallpox now, as of old, obtains its victims among the poor and wretched, whether vaccinated or unvaccinated ; and the majority of the vaccinated in smallpox hospitals received the illusory rite at the hands of parish medical officers with " the best supply of lymph in the country."   smallfox is stamped out in Scotland, for which result says the Scots Registrar-General, " We have to thank our excellent Vaccination Act, and the common-sense of our people, which does not dispose them to receive the statements of the anti-vaccinators." smallpox has often been stamped out, or, to speak accurately, has disappeared for a time from populations unvaccinated, partially vaccinated, and vaccinatedi and the phenomenon does not therefore conyey to us the lesson prescribed. When, however, as is probable, smallpox reappears in Scotland, will its reappearance be placed to the discredit of vaccination, as its disappearance is at present placed to its credit ? If we may accept the evidence of the Lancet of July 29, certainly not. There we read that ''Any considerable outbreak of  smallpox  would prove that the Scottish people had been living in a fool's paradise." True ; but why? The answer is twofold - first, defective vaccination ; and second, meagre pay for vaccinators. First, no children need be vaccinated before they are six months old, and a large number are unvaccinated until they reach the age of nine or twelve months. Again, al- though Dr. Cameron, the leading advocate of animal vaccination, represents the largest of Scottish constituencies, the people are absolutely indifferent to his nostrum, and are satisfied with lymph that ''is thoroughly humanised.'' And again, the Scots have never received the revelation of Marson as to marks, the vast majority of their children "being vaccinated in but two places, many showing no more than one satis- factory mark." The second order of defect may be regarded as still more prejudicial to the maintenance of immunity, namely, bad pay and insufficient inspection. There are no grants for successful vaccination, as in England, " the ab- scence of which is much felt ; " as may without difficulty be believed ; and fees from the poor are hard to collect, the only payment from the rates being for paupers ; and hence the appointment of public vaccinators is much to be desired. For these reasons the Lancet holds that " Scotland is certainly behind her southern sister," even with smallpox stamped out. We appreciate the argument, and feel that we are deprived of an advantage. We were persuaded that the Scots, in spite of that common sense which set them superior to our folly, were quartered in a fools' paradise, and made sure that ere long we should be able to tell them so with demonstration ; but we are anticipated. "They are without smallpox," says the Lancet, " but they are ill-vaccinated, and neither know what is good vaccination, nor bow to purchase it, and are exulting in a false security." Thus we are cut off from sajing, " You trusted in vaccination, and what has vaccination done for you?" The Lancet will argue, "We long ago indicated the defects of Scottish vaccination, and why thould good vaccination suffer discredit by reason of that which Is bad ?" On thj other hand, we have the Scots Registrar-General   claiming and obtaining credit for the said defec tive vaccination in preserving Scotland from smallpox ! In short, it is as hard to fix these vaccinators to any point as to hold eels by their tails. Their play is, "Heads I win, tails you lose." As Cobbett discovered, we never see their last shuffle.   The deaths at Norwich from vaccination are under exhaustive inquiry, and until the conclu- sion of the investigation we refrain from any remarks. No pains will, of course, be spared by the officials of the Local Government Board to rescue vaccination from reproach, but under the supervision that has been established by our friends, the facts will be brought out, and will speak for themselves. Vaccination is said to be a cause of death not recognised by law, and therefore, cannot be registered ; but occasionally the illegal truth is put upon record. For example, here is a certificate : -  Sub-District of Bhickhumy in the County of  Lancaster.   Datx and Place. 18 August, 1882. 7, King Street, Blackburn.   Nave.  Emma Louisa,  aged three  Tnohths,  daughter of  Robert Jennings,  Leather-dresser.   Cause of Death. Vaccination, Phlegmonous Inflammation,  and Exhaustion.   Certified by Registered, 21 Augast, 1882. James Higson, M.R.C.B. W. B. Fairbrothkb,  Registrar.  Observe how easily in this instance "  vaccination " might have been omitted, and thereby ^' preserved from reproach." Here is another case from Nottingham, reported by Mr. Scrimshaw, with Vaccination omitted from the certificate of death: -  " As I write, there lies in his coffin the infant son of Mr. Job Smith, colporteur. This child was a handsome, healthy boy four weeks ago when he was vaccinated. From that day ne dwindled to a mere skeleton, until he died of Diarrhoea - as per medical certificate. The parents see only two facts: he was well when vaccinated ; he never was afterwards ; and no amount of casuistry will ever dissever in their minds the death from the vaccination. The mother told the doctor when about to perform the operation that she wa? dead opposed to it, and propounded the following puzzle to him : - * I had two brothers, one vaccinated, the other not. Both took smallpox; the vaccinated one died ; the other is alive and well. IIow do you explain it ? ' The doctor coloured, and snid, * The baby is crying. Let us get that vaccinated.' They did, and in four weeks there is a funeral proces- sion. The doctor gets the fee, and the parents get the corpse. Wljat bargain could be fairer?  " Will it ever be legal to hang these vaccinating murderers ? "   Tllli VACCINAtlOi^ tNQUIRfife.   89   MR. P. A. TAYLOR, M.P., AND DR. ALFRED CARPENTER.  In the Echo of August 10 the following letter appeared : -  The latest defence of Taccination that I have observed was uttered by Dr. Alfred Carpenter, in his address delivered at the meeting of the British medical Association at Worcester, and in r£spect of logic and candour it transcends anything lately put forth by the most fanatical provaccinist.  Hear him : - '* The report of the Committee upon smallpox was presented at the meeting of the Association in 1830, and occupied nearly three hours in its delivery. It deserves to be reprinted and again dii^tributed throughout the land, for it utterly demolishes all the arguments which are still brought against  vaccination /' &c., &c.  Now this, it will be admitted, is tolerably strong. It is going a long way to demolish in 1830 the arguments brought forward in 1882.  But in 1830 the whole body of Taccinists declared that it was impossible to communicate other and terrible diseases by the process of vaccination. In 1882 no medical man of any repute dares to deny the danger of what Sir Thomas Watson has justly termed " a ghastly risk.*' This ascertained fact now forms one of the strongest arguments against vaccination. How can this argument have been demolished in 1830? Let us next hear who the people are whose arguments of 1882 are demolished by the Report of 1830. For feeble abuse, surely the following passage was never excelled : - They are "those mischievous individuals who prey upon the weak minds of those who find the funds for the anti-vaccination craze, and who provide the funds to pay the salaries of those whose interest it is to keep that wicked agitation alive.''  Certainly this is neither sense nor grammar, but is something worse than the negative of those good things. It is a piece of measureless imperti- nence in Dr. Alfred Carpenter to speak thus of a cause upheld by such men as Herbert Spencer, by Francis Newman, by Garth Wilkinson, bjr Mrs. Josephine Butler, by many medical men in this country, and abroad by such men as Herr Eolb, and by such physicians as Dr. Hamemik, of Prague ; Dr. Gidtmann, of Aix ; Professor Vogt, of Berne; Dr. Neimeyer, of Berlin, and many other distinguished names - to say nothing of members of Parliament at home, and tens of thousands of English men and women.  Dr. Alfred Carpenter may live to learn that reckless and intolerant abuse of this sort would damage the best of causes ; while, in respect of a cause so rotten as that of vaccination, it is likely to produce a rapid collapse with all who are competent to weigh evidence and to estimate the value of mere abuse.  Brighton, Atig, 18. P. A. Taylor.  In the Echo of August 21, Dr. Carpenter replied as follows : -  Mr. P. A. Taylors letter upon vaccination would be amusing if it were not for the terrible consequences which may follow to those who may   happen to be influenced by it. I am not sur prised at Mr. Taylor's attack. The main politica supporter of a vs icked agitation scarcely likes to be shown up in his true colovrs. I enclose for your inspection a specimen of the work which issues from the anti-vaccination press, and which is showered down upon myself and others through the Post OfHce, by means of which the most brutal insults are offered to those who try to prevent the evils which would follow if the anti- vaccinators could get their way. They are only specimens of scores of similar productions which are scattered broadcast through the country. I think they will fully justify my application of the terms which I have used.  Mr. Taylor has quoted certain names in sup- port of his view, some utterly unknown amoug authorities in their own land, some well-known, such as Sir Thomas Watson. Mr. Taylor would lead your readers to suppose that Sir Thomas is a supporter of the charges made against  vaccination. This is utterly untrue. It may be, in Mr. Taylor's estimation, *' a piece of impertinence " on my part to make such a statement; but Sir Thomas Watson upholds vaccination on lines similar to my own, and Mr. Taylor knows it well, and yet he claims Sir Thomas as a supporter of the anti-vaccination craze. He may claim myself among the same categoir if he pleases, for I am totally opposed to the principle of sending people to prison because they do not pay the finea which they have incurred for breaking the laws of the land. It is, to my mind, a wrong way to effect the object which is sought ; for 1 would give power to the Magistrate to separate the parent from the child for a short space of time, and have the operation performed in the justice-room, and as soon as the surgeon informed the Magistrate that the child was vaccinated, I would let the parent go free. It would be neces- sary to take care of the child until the vesicles had completed their term, otherwise the parent would be so reckless of his child's welfare that he would be sure to try and make mischief out of a very trivial operation.  I should like very much to compel Mr. Taylor to nurse a few cases of confluent smallpox. He would then be able to understand a few of the reasons which induce all medical men who have much practice to support the use of vaccination.  Will you allow me at the same time to state that whilst upholding vaccination as a necessary institution at the present time, I have publicly advocated a course which will some day render vaccination altogether unnecessary? smallpox must be stamped out, and after a time the morbid matter in which it flourishes will be removed also. It will fail to form in the human constitution. Let an ti - vaccinators take the course I have suggested. Let them give up the system of savagely attacking those who, like my- self, are earnestly working for the benefit of their fellow-men ; let them support true sanitary work, such as the abundant supply of pure water, the immediate removal of all excreta from our midst ; make engineers understand that stinking sewers are wrongly constructed, &c., and the time will come when vaccination will become an unneces- sary work. Alfbed Cakpbntkr, M.D.  Croydon, Aug. 10. The reader will observe in the foregoing letter a characteristic piece of audacity on toe part of Dr. Carpenter. He accuses Mr. Taylor of representing Sir Thomas Watson as " a supporter of the charges made against vaccination/' adding, "This is utterly untrue." Mr. Taylor simply cited the words of Sir Thomas in his well-known article in the Nineteenth Century , in which he designated the liability to syphilis from  vaccination " a ghastly risk. Dr. Carpenter says that Sir Thomas Watson '^upholds vaccination on lines similar to my own/' which he is pleased to say "Mr. Taylor knows well." The summary answer is that Sir Thomas is an advocate of animal vaccination, and a believer in spontaneous cowpox, whilst Dr. Carpenter maintains that Ceel^ was right, and that cowpox is human  smallpox  inoculated on the cow. The fact is, they are at complete variance, and if Dr. Carpenter does not know it, he will please make a note of it, and at the same time trv to improve his manners.  Vaccinators confute vaccinators. There is nothing so like Babel as one of their conferences. What one asserts another denies. More mo, Dr. C. R. Drysdale came forward to rebuke Dr. Car- penter in the J3cho of August 22 for venturing to suggest that smallpox may be extinguished by sanitation. He says : -  I cannot look forward so sanguinely as Dr. A. Carpenter seems to do, to a time when sanitary science will be able to protect us without vaccination, because smallpox is such a virulent contagion, that it seems unlikely that it can be got rid of for, at any rate, centuries to come."  Worse still, he implies that the charges advanced against vaccination by Mr. Taylor are true, but that they may be obviated by resort to animal vaccination : -  "In 1874 I read a paper before the Medical Society of London to prove the superior efficacy of animal vaccination over the arm-to-arm plan now in vogue in London, &c., alleging that it had been found to have no bad effects, that it spread no erysipelas nor other contagions, and that it could be obtained in unlimited quantities when required. . . . And if Dr. A. Carpenter would help Dr. Cameron and such of us as want to get rid entirely of arm-to-arm vaccination, he womd, I am certain, be of great service to the cause of human health and happiness."  Dr. Carnenter may well pray to be delivered from his allies. Every assertion of Dr. Drysdale crosses his convictions and advocacy, and until the doctors have squared their difficulties, it is not likely that the^ will be aUe to maJce fresh aggressions on our hberties.  In the Echo of August 23, Mr. Taylor thus replied to Dr. Carpenter : -  Dr. Alfred Carpenter is kind enough to acknowledge that my letter would be ' amusing ' but for the * terrible consequences * that may fol- low its perusal. Here the learned Doctor has the advantag^e of me ; for his reply is decidedly amusing, while certainly no terrible consequences are likely to result from anybody being 'influenced by it.'  Rosalind tells Orlando he has 'overthrown more than your enemies.' Of Dr. Alfred Carpen  ter's letter it may be truly said it has overthrown nothing but the cause he advocates.  It 19 amusing to see with what a sublime unconsciousness the learned Doctor knocks away the last rotten prop that has upheld the system of vaccination, for he declares that 'smallpox must be stamped out,' and that this can be done by sanitary measures. That is our thunder !  Hitherto the upholders of vaccination have rested their defence of a system, which most of them acknowledged was d priori abnormal and unsatisfactory, upon two elementary fallacies.   VIZ   1st. That it protected from smallpox.  2nd. That no other protection was possible, seeing that the most perfect hygienic conditions availed nothing against this dire disease.  As evidence of this the vaccinists have always placed in the front rank of their pseudo-historical accounts of the ravages of smallpox, stories of the deaths of kings and royal personages, proving, as they declared, that nothing but leather - I beg pardon - vaccination, was any defence.  There are, besides, two Dr. Carpenters in the field. And what says the other Dr. Carpenter upon the orthodox view of sanitation as the means of stamping out smallpox? In his article on smallpox in the April number of the JVlne- teenth Century , Dr. W. B. Carpenter says : - " That  smallpox  is one of these (diseases whose poisons can act in depraving the very healthiest olood) must be admitted by every one who has seen, as I have, the healthiest subjects, living under the most favourable conditions, smitten with the deadly poison conveyed into their lungs by air otherwise pure.'* And again - " To maintain that this disease is to be extinguished by any sanitation that is practically possible shows an enthusiastic credulity," &c.  Official statistics have long Dr ce proved vaccination does not protect against smallpox, seeing that many thousands of vaccinated persons died of smallpox in 1871-2 ; and now we have Dr. Alfred Carpenter's testimony that adequate sanitation will stamp out smallpox. What basis is left for the stupid practice ?  It is strange, indeed, that so able a man as Dr. Alfred Carpenter should fail to perceive the blow he has given to the cause of vaccination. Certainly his logic is peculiar. In his letter he maintains :  1st. That vaccination is a matter of such immense importance that anyone who proposes the repeal of the law which makes it compulsory is supporting a " wicked agitation."  2nd. That vaccination is absolutely needless, because smallpox can be stamped out by sanitation, and, therefore,  3rd. That compulsion should be made more absolute than ever; so that not only parents should be fined and imprisoned for neglect of the sacred rite, but that the operation should be performed by force-^the baton of the policeman supporting the lancet of the surgeon. After the operation, he adds, " I would let the parent go free." Blessings on Dr. Carpenter for even that small remnant of British liberty I But he makes conditions. " It would be necessary to take care of the child until the vesicles had completed their term, otherwise the parent would be so reckless of his child^s welfare that he would be 6ure to try and make ndscMef out of a Terj trivial operation I "  I would advise Dr. Alfred Carpenter not to undertake such a forcible operation in person, lest the parent should ''make mischief in another direction. Many a law-abiding Englishman will suffer fine and imprisonment rather than have his children vaccinated, who might be tempted, if force were threatened, to kick the intruding medico into the street, and if I were there I snould cry, " Well done ! '' Brighton, Aug. 22. P. A. Taylob.  Mr. H. B. Dudgeon also contributed the fol- lowing criticism : - Dr. Alfred Carpenter's professional proposal that magistrates should be empowered to enforce the vaccination of the child while the parent is in court, would in practice be surrounded with difficulties. For mstance, a Leicester tradesman with whom I have long been acquainted has informed me that one of his children was vaccinated in infancy when in good health; that it immediately sickened, and gra- dually grew worse, till, at the end of two years, it died, the latter portion of its existence being a time of extreme suffering and agony. The medical charges, he said, amounted to £50. Now, let us imagine Dr. Carpenter's proposal to have become law. All such instances as the above would be watched by an angry neighbourhood, bulletins would be issued, and photographs of the baby put in circulation. And as cases of vaccinal fatality are much more numerous than is gene- rally supposed, the unpleasant position of public vaccinators may be easily conceived. For Dr. Scott, the physidan to the Manchester Children's Hospital, m a recent defence of vaccination, makes the following important acknowledgment : << There is no getting over the fact that  vaccination is hated amongst the working dass in Lancashire."  Dr. Carpenter agrees with some important articles of the anti- vaccine creed, such as the use of pure water, the removal of excreta, and the suppression of the nuisance of stinking sewers. Where, then, is the need for over-clouding these sound doctrines with mystic vaccine dogmas and illiberal appeals to force?  There would be some risk in aggravating the law in the present temper of the population. Medical men may try to persuade themselves that the anti-vaccinators are not numerous. Defoe made a similar remark of the Dissenting party two centuries ago. "I am of opinion," he wrote, " that they are not so nume- rous as is pretended. Besides, the more numerous the more dangerouj>, and therefore the more need to suppress them. The light, foolish handling of them by fines is their glory and advantage. If one severe law was made and punctually executed, that whoever was found at a conventide should be banished the nation, and the preacher be hanged, we should see an end of the tale ; they would all come to church. To talk of five shilhngs a month for not coming to the Sacrament, and a shilling a week for not coming to church, is such a way of converting people as was never known. This is selling them a liberty to transgress for so much money. If it be not a crime, why don't we g^ve full licence? and, if it be, no price ought to compound for the com  mitting it, for that is selling a liberty to people to sin against God and the Government.'* - Defoe's " Shortest Way with the Dissenters."  H. D. Dudgeon . Quorn, Leicestershire, Aug. 22.  Other excellent letters have appeared in the JEcho for which we regret we cannot find space. As so often happens, attack has afforded oppor- tunity to display our strength and satisfactorily dispose of our adversaries. Thanks are especially due to the editor of the Echo for his courageous equity in giving both sides a-hearing.   A HOMICIDAL ARTICLE.  In Baron's " Life of Jenner,"^ vol. ii., p. 433, there is a letter from Jenner to his friend Gardner, dated January 13, 1823, wherein occurs this passage: -  "I have an attack from a quarter 1 did not expect, the Edinhttrgh Review. These people understand literature better than physic. It will do incalculable mischief. I put it down at 100,000 deaths at least. Never was I involved in so many perplexities."  What an extraordinary article! working mischief incalculable, and bad for at least one hundred thousand deaths ! A criticism in the Quarterly is said to have killed Eeats, concerning which Byron remarked : -  'Tis strange the mind, that very fiery particle, Should let itself be snuffed out by an article.  If, however, Jenner was right, it will be allowed, we think, that the murder even of a poet was exceeded in atrodty by the slaughter of at least one hundred thousand ordinary mortals. Wherefore, to discover the manner of the great iniquity, I looked up the Edinburgh Review, described by John Bmg, Jenner's henchman, as " the stinK-pot of literature ; " and in the number for Novemoer, 1822, discovered the diabolical article. It is entitied '' Yacdnation and  smallpox  ; " b obviously written by the editor, Jeffrey; and the rock of offence was at once apparent. Doubt is thrown on the efficacy of vaccination to prevent smallpox ; ergo, yacdnation thus discredited will be neglected; ergo, vaccination thus neglected will enlarge the domain of smallpox ; ergo, at least one hundred thousand persons will perish. Q. E. D. But it will be aaked, " What did Jeffrey say? " The article thus opens : -  " Vaccination, we are perfectly persuaded, is a very great blessing to mankind ; but not quite so great a blessing, nor so complete a protection, as its early defenders conceived it to be. The proof of this has been admitted with great reluctance ; but it has unfortunately become too strong for denial or resistance. The first answers given to the instances of failure, with which the friends of vaccination were pressed, were, either that the disease which had occurred after vaccination was chicken-pox, and not smallpox ; or that the process of vaccination had been unskilfully or imperfectly conducted ; or that it was one of those very rare cases which occurred in the times of inoculation, and from which vaccination itself did not pretend to be wholly exempt." The report of the Vaccine Pock Institution for 1803 is cited, as follows, to show how absolute was the conscience in vaccination in the days of inexperience : -  " "We have been alarmed two or three times with intelligence of smallpox occurring several weeks or months after our patients had undergone the cowpox. We thonght it our duty to visit and examine these patients, and also to inquire into their history among their attendants, and by these means we obtained the completest satisfaction that the pretended smallpox was generally the chickenpox."  As time went on, cases of smallpox after vaccination kept multiplying, and the various excuses to account for their occurrence, though obstinately asserted, utterly broke down. There remained no doubt whatever that to be vaccinated in the most approved fashion afforded no guarantee against smallpox. In 1820, said Jeffrey, the Board of the National Vaccine Establishment was compelled to make the following melancholy admission : -  " It is true that we have received accounts from different parts of the country of numerous cases of smallpox having occurred after vaccination ; and we cannot doubt that the prejudices of the people against this preventive expedient are assignable (and not altogether unreasonably, perhaps) to this cause. These cases the Board has beea indus- triously employed in investigating ; and though it appears that many of them rest only on hearsay evidence, and that others seem to have undergone the vaccine process imperfectly some years since, when it was less well understood, and practised less skilfully than it ought to be; yet, after every reasonable deductiop, we are compelled to allow that too many still remain on undeniable proof, to leave any doubt that the pretensions of vaccination to the merit of a perfect and exclusive security in all oases against smallpox, were admitted at first too unreservedly."  The significance of a confession like the foregoing IS not to be estimated literally. It was exacted under irresistible pressure of facts, nume- rous, definite and undeniable, after every method of excuse and prevarication had been exhausted. In short, it was an authoritative retractation of the flaming medical testimony with which vaccination had been commended to the public in 1800, when the heads of the profession thought it their duty to declare in the newspapers : -  ** That those persons who have had the cowpox are perfectly secure from the future infection of the smallpox."  And of Jenner's emphatic assurance : -  '* That the human frame, when once it has felt the influence of the genuine cowpox is never afterwards, at any period of its existence, assailable by the smallpox."  The occasion of Jeffrey's article was the publi- cation by Dr. John Thomson of a treatise on a violent epidemic in Edinburgh and its neighbour- hood in 1818-19, which some described as  smallpox  and others as chicken-pox ; Thomson saying:-  "Had the un vaccinated alone been attacked, nothing, it appears to me, but the most unreason*   able scepticism could ever have suggested a doub of the disease being genuine smallpox."  For some cause undefined, and probably undiscoverable, a subsidence of small* pox over the whole of Europe set in toward the close of last century, and continued during the early years of the present; and to this subsidence the favour that vaccination met with was largely due. The decline in the disease concurrently with the introduction of vaccination, was ascribed to vaccination, although the decline prevailed among an overwhelming majority who had never received vaccination. To make good the claim for vaccination, it would have been necessary to maintain that the vaccine rite as applied to 2 or 3 per cent, of Europeans effected the salvation of 98 or 97 per cent. For example, a great point was made by Jenner and his friends of the extinction of smallpox in Vienna, according to the following table : -   Yii^.   Total Deaths.  1791-1800 average 14,600  1801 ... 15,181  1802 ... 14,522  1803 ... 14,383  1804 ... 14,035   BXALL- POX.  835 or one in 17i  164 ... 93  61 ... 238  27 ... 532  2 ... 7,017   Yet it was never pretended that in these years more than a fraction of the Viennese were vaccinated, or that the death-rate of the city was reduced by the disappearance of smallpox. The like fatuity characterised the whole of the vaccinators' statistics. smallpox had declined, there fore, they argued, vaccination is the cause of the decline, and multitudes were convinced by the illicit logic. When vaccination was, however, brought to the test of epidemic smallpox, its inefficacy became manifest, and thus Dr. Thomson had to avow, as the result of hb experience in the Edinburgh epidemic of 1818-19 : -  " It is to the severity of this epidemic, I am convinced, that we ought to attribute the greatness of the number of the vaccinated who have been attacked by it, and not to any deterioration in the qualities of the cow -pock virus, or to any defects in the manner in which it has been employed. Had a variolous conatitution of the atmospheret similar to that which we have lately experienced, existed at the time Dr. Jenner brought forward his discovery ^ it may he doubted ichether it ever could have obtained the confidence of the public.**  Such was the article which Jenner ** put down for 100,000 deaths at least." Yet neither Jeffrey nor Thomson denounced vaccination. Whilst they said that it could no longer be trusted to prevent smallpox, they freely allowed that it made the disease milaer in those it attacked. When a cherished belief is surrendered, it is rarely unconditionallv : it is only by degrees that full concession is made unto truth.-- S. A. A.   Petitions. - ^We gather from the twenty-third report of the Select Committee on Public Petitions that during the present session of Parliament 32 petitions, containing 21,587 signatures, have been presented, praying for the repeal of the  vaccination Acts; in their favour, 7 petitions, with 78 signatures.   .   63   THE SWISS VICTORY.  [From the Titnes, Aug. 12.] To the Editor.  Sib, - The people of Switzerland have been greatly stirred by the attempt to force upon them a vacciDation law of more than ordinary stringency. This projet de loi^ known as the Epidemien-GresetZy which rendered Taccination compulsory in twenty-two cantons, was passed by the Federal Chambers on Jan. 31 last, and was the outcome of a concerted action on the part of the Swiss Medical Commission, which had ascertained by a postcard inquiry that out of 1,168 members of the profession 1,122 were favourable to vaccination. The law was promulgated on Feb. 14, when its oppressive character becoming known (the penalties being from 5 f. to 2,000 f., or one yearns imprisonment, according to the gravity of the offence), the people decided at once to exercise the right of a referendum^ or appeal from the decisions of the Chambers to the suffrages of the people. This constitutional right can only be utilised provided 30,000 signatures are obtained within ninety days. So great, however, was the public interest, and so pronounced the determination to throw off this yoke, that within the period prescribed nearly 80,000 signatures were laid before the   President of the Republic. The popular and final vote was taken on July 30, and in a dispatch from Professor Vogt, of Berne University, I learn that, notwithstanding the most vigorous efforts on the part of the medical faculty and their friends, who spared neither trouble nor expense in circulating their appeals, the law has been rejected by a majority of 253,968 votes, or about four for every one who voted in the affirmative. Only one canton (Neuchatel) had a majority in favour of the law. This result has given a fresh impulse to the international movement against compulsory vaccination in Holland, Belgium, and Germany, and the leaders of the agitation in the latter country are confident that the Reichstag will follow the example of Switzerland, and repeal the German vaccination law during the next session. In order to co-operate in this important undertaking, the Executive Committee of the International An ti- Vaccination League has just decided to hold the third International Anti- Vaccination Congress at Berlin in January next, and arrangements will be made to secure the representation of all countries where this medical prescription is enforced by municipal or Imperial statutes. - Yours faithfully,  William Tebb, Hon. Sec., International Anti- Vaccination League, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster, Aug. 10.   Details of the Voting.  From Prof. A. Vogt, of Berne University, we have received the following details of the vote of the Swiss people on the Epidemic Diseases Act, better denominated the Swiss Compulsory Vaccination Act : -   July 80, 1888.   The Twenty-fire Cantons of the Swiss Confederation.   Per cent.   Uri  Appenzell, Interior  Glaras  Wallis  Appenzell, Exterior  Nidwalden  Sch>vyz  Freiburg  St. Gallon  Baselstadt  Obwalden ,  Lnzern  Bern ,   Baselland  Aargau  Zug   Schweiz ,  Tessin  Solothurn ...  Thnrgau  Granbiinden  Waadt  Sohaffhausen Genf   Zurich  Neuenburg   Namber of  citizens  entitled to  vote.   4,160  3,265  8,178 26,083 12,221  2,835 12,380 27,824 50,826 10,008  3,726  31,332  109,256  11,272  42,041  5,688 6i2,552 35,000 16,708 23,866 22,426 58,326  8,021 20,034 73,904 23,174   Have Toted.   Have  rejected  the  Act.   ! From 100  entitled  have  vot<rd.   2,715  2,080  5,215  14,604  10,460  1,061  3,042  15,542  36,642  4,742  1,124  12,365  42,661  5,655  31,891  1,787  321,788  10,157  6,247  16,568  12,905  14,829  6,247  4,377  52,725  6,147   2,656 2,028 4,923  13,730  9,745  969  2,769  14,078  33,172  4,153  979  10,536  36,172 4,566  25,417  1,412  253,968  7,450  4,566  12,034 9,241 9,734 4,093 2,673  34,672 2,200   65 6^i 6Jt 56 80 37 25 56 72 47 30 39 39 50 76 31 50 29 37 69 58 25 78 22 71 27   Of 100  votes  were  negative.   98 98 94 94 93 9L 91 91 91 88 87 85 85 81 80 79 79 73 73 73 72 66 66 61 61 36   V   The Cantons are set in order, according to their negative votei (see the last column). Neuenburg or NeuchAtel alone accepted the Act.   \ DEFEAT OF THE VACCINATORS IN SWITZERLAND.  Vaccinating- tyranny has received a fatal blow in Switzerland. The question of compul- sion or non-compulsion being put direct 4,0 the electors, autocratic dictation was summarily and contemptuously rejected. Of late years attempts have been cautiously made to introduce by degrees into the several cantons more or less of stringency as to vaccination with regard to schools, &c. The will of the nation, so sternly expressed in the  {>opular vote, will now render this tentative egislation abortive, and the victorious anti- vaccinators are already engaged in measures for the completion of their triumph by the abolition of the minor attempts of the enemy to undermine parental rights and duties.  By the Federal Constitution of Switzerland a liefirendum, or appeal to the popular vote, is permitted in the case of any new Federal law, should 30,000 electors unite in making the demand. The Epidemic law was promulgated on February 16 and May 14. Professor Vogt was able to announce the '' first check to the vaccinating fanaticism " by 78,938 signatures, demanding an appeal to the people, and on the evening of July 30 the victory was completed by a majority of about 4 to 1. A quarter-of-a-million voted, says Professor Vogt, against " obligatory vaccination."  The following address to the electors was cir- culated by the Committee of the Referendum : -  " CoNF£D££ATES ! - Will you accept the law concerning the measures to be taken against epi- demics? No ! Ton are conyinced that the cantons and the communes are themselves capable of regnlating sanitary matters within their own precincts. Then reject this novel bureaucratic guardianship. All that is good in the law is already in your power, and you can put it in force at any time without this legislation. Therefore let ns vote, Ko !  " Opponents of Vaccination ! The law once in operation, you will be condemned, like criminals, to a year in prison or a fine of 2,000 francs for attempting to avoid vaccinal poisoning. Therefore you will vote. No !  ** And you, adherents of Vaccination ! In your opinion, you are protected by your vaccination. Then let that snfiice. Bespect the convictions of those who have seen the ill-effects of vaccination. Content yourselves with being free to be vaccinated, but respect the convictions of those who wish to abstain from the practice. And therefore, in the name of justice and humanity, you will vote. No ! "The CoMinTTEB of the Repeeendum."  A more extended address was issued by the Committee, dated Basle, July 16th, as follows : -  '^ Confederates! - The decisive day approaches. will you accept the Epidemic law ? Yes or No ? Such is the question. The law is in your hands. Head it, and you will soon learn that if the Swiss people wish to continue to be a free nation, they ought to reject this violent law, which is the first step to the ruin of all liberty in Switzerland. This law gives and creates nothing new which can be called a benefit, and which you have not or cannot obtain already without it. Under the mask of a paternal prevoyance, it aims at the establishment of an uiilimited medical despotism and the   creation of new functionaries, heavily salaried out of the labour of the Swiss workman. What is new in this law is worthless, and will simply provoke discontent by exorbitant taxation, while it abolishes many a right that is dear to the people. It takes away and destroys an essential and precious part of our cantonal and communal independence. Quite needlessly it gives the central Government power to interfere with matters which can be managed much better and much cheaper by the cantons and communes themselves without the aid of the federal officials. Our army, the strength and pride of the country, will by tiiis law be no lonf]^r at the free disposition of the central authority, but will be abandoned to the arbitrary dictation of the principal military doctor and his colleagues. The law attacks the fundamental principles of personal liberty in empowering, among other arbitrary measures, the sequestration of the member of a family, and, above all, imposing vaccination, a practice whose utility is at this moment not only placed in doubt, but is directly contested by men of science of the highest capacity - a practice which has already endangered the life and health of thousands.  " Fellow-citizens ! By voting Yes, you will throw away the most sacred of your rights and liberties. By voting Yes, you will submit yourselves to the varying and far from infallible opinion of the official doctors of the State. By voting Yes, you will give the medical authority the power to separate forcibly, at his will, the members of your families, and place them in an hospital whose doors will be closed to you. By voting Yes, you will vote for obligatory and even for compulsory vaccination. By voting Yes, you will expose your- selves and your families to the gravest danger of vaccine poisoning without any hope or possibility of finding it either useful or preservative. By voting Yes, you will lend your hand to the oppres- sion of many persons who, having been taught by sad experience, are engaged in the attempt to save themselves and their loved ones from a further empoisonment. By voting Yes, you will deprive science and yourselves of the right, and even the possibility, of profiting by better knowledge, because you will be bound in stronger fetters by this absurd law. By voting Yes, you will render it possible that anyone who conscientiously disobeys this law of violence may be condemned as a criminal to twelve months' hard labour or a fine of 2,000 f .  " After this, who will take it on his conscience to vote Yes ?  " Fellow-citizens ! In voting No, you will reject the strait- waistcoat of force, and the fetters which the domineering spirit of certain medical men would place upon you. In voting No, you will preserve the privilege of choosing, in the days of sickness, the doctor in whom you have confi- dence. In voting No, you will preserve the liberty of believing, or not believing, in  vaccination. Let him who wishes expose himself to the danger, but let him who does not wish, and who is persuaded that vaccination has its dangers, pre* serve the right to abstain. In voting No, you will act justly toward the conscience of everyone.  " Fellow-citizens ! Can you hesitate any longer on which side you will vote ?  *' Awake, then, sons of Helvetia, who wish to guard and respect the sacred heritage transmitted to you by your forefathers. The eyes of surrounding nations are fixed upon you. Show them what it is to be a free people. Show them that you are      95   worthy of your ancestors of Grntli, and that at the present day you, like them, are determined to refuse to wear the chain, and that you also know how to to defend yourselves against those who attack your liberties. Then let us reject this unscientific and tyrannical law by a unanimous "No ! And may God save and protect our beloved country.  "The Committee of the Referendum."  This imposing majority of four to one against insolent medical domination has suddenly revealed to the vaccinating party of Europe the fragility of their hold upon nublic opinion. It has like- wise revealed to the anti-vaccine leaders the great strength and power of their teaching, and the victorious possibilities of 'the future. Cowpox and superstition are losing their glamour, and the belief is daily becoming more general that personal and municipal cleanliness are the only true protection against every form of epidemic disease. H. b, D.   MR. BRUDENELL CARTER, F.R.C.S., ON VACCINATION.  I HAVB myself a strong conviction that the physical peculiarities and proclivities which are usually due to syphilitic parentage are sometimes produced, even in an aggravated form, by vaccination with lymph yielded by a vaccinifer who has himself inherited the disease, and that this may happen without the production of any derangement of the course of the vaccine vesicle, or of anything which could at the time be recognised as evidence of a specific inoculation. In other words, if we vaccinate a child who is the subject of inherited syphilis, and obtain apparently normal vesicles, and if from one of these apparently normal vesicles we vaccinate a healthy infant, and again obtain normal vesicles, I think that the taint of the syphilitic vaccinifer may nevertheless be conveyed to the vaccinated in such a way as eventually to produce in the latter the constitutional conditions and bodily defects which time will develop in the former. I am well aware that this belief is not generally entertained, and I do not propose in this place to enter into any discussion of the grounds on which it rests. I am content to place it on record in an explicit manner, and, in the phrase of Sydenham, to leave it to " time, the discoverer of the truth ! '* The lost Vaccination Act provides for the registration of vaccinifers, so that we may hereafter be able to ascertain the source of the lymph used in every case, and where the vaccinifer is still living, to follow him out and examine into his state. If we find ten years hence, as I think we shall find, that there are many cases in which patient A, who presents clear evidence of what we now regard as inherited syphilis, but whose parents and brothers and sisters itre not syphilitic, has been vaccinated from patient B, whose parents and brothers and sisters are syphilitic, and who is syphilitic himself, then I shall consider my position to be esta- blished, and shall hold it as proven that A derived his syphilis from B. In the meantime it is useless to discuss the question, because the only data on which it could oe decided do not exist. In more than one instance in which I have had strong presamptioD that an apparently inherited   syphilis was really vaccinal, I have found it imnossible after the lapse of ten or fifteen years to aiscover anything about the child from whom the lymph had been obtained. I would fain urge my suspicions, however, as a reason why a vaccinator should repudiate as a source of sup- ply, not only these children who are themselves obviously syphilitic, but also those whose parents have at any time suffered from the disease. I have heard great stress laid upon vaccinating with ^ pure " lymph, without admixture of blood ; but I fail to see any physiological or other ground for the belief by wnich this advice is dictated. The fluid of lymph is, I suppose, derived directly from the blood, and is, if we may receive Chau- veau*s experiments, simply liquor sanguinis, holding certain specific particles of vaccinal contagion in suspension. I am not aware of any evidence which connects syphilitic infection with the blood corpuscles rather than with the fluid in which they float ; and I should be unwilling to admit the '' purity ^ of any secretion or exudation which had syphilitic blood as its direct and only source. (From "A Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Eye," 1876, pp. 276-277.)  I am quite aware that there is now a sort of common consent among medical writers to gloss over the evils that may be attendant upon vaccination, for the sake of its great and manifest benefits. In this course 1 cannot concur, beeause I think that the evils should be fairly recognised, and that they should be neutralised by proper and scientific precautions. It seems to me, how- ever, that the positions alike of the public and practitioners have been changed for the worse by that aggregate of useless, meddlesome, and mis- chievous legislation known as the Vaccination Acts. That vaccination will be increased or small  S^x diminished, I, for one, utterly disbelieve. - . Bbudbnbll Cabtbb, Lancet, June 13| 1868.   Decrease of Vaccination in Ibbland. - We learn from the tenth annual report of the Irish Local Government Board that in the various dis* pensing districts during the year ending Sept. 29, 1881, the medical officers vaccinated 113,557 persons. Of these 94,381 were under one year old, 15,614 above one year, while 3,562 were re-vaccinations. The vaccination returns show the large decrease of 34,271, being the smallest number recorded since 1863. - British Medical Journal, Aug. 26, 1882.  HuDDEBSFiBLD. - Mr. John Wainwright, of the Huddersfield League, writes: - "Our Mr. Ernest Denton was taken to Wakefield Prison for fourteen days for non-pa^'ment of a vaccination fine and expenses. The policemen came for him in the dead of the night, but he refused to let them in until morning. 1 went to Wakefield yesterday (Sunday), Aug. 20, and brought him home. he thought he would not have been able to stand the prison treatment. He was only allowed bread and water, and got a chill when stripped and kept waiting for the doctor to examine him. The cell in which he was confined was 9 ft. by 7 1 ft. We have just had a meeting to hear Mr. Denton relate his prison experience, and we wish we could have information as to how^far his treatment was legal, especially as one of our members is going to follow Mr. Denton's example."   96   THE VACCINATION INQUIREk   MR. SWEETING'S MEMORANDUM ON  VACCINATION.  By Montague D. Makuna, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.  (Late Medical Superintendent of Fulham smallpox Hospital.  It having been my misfortune to be the predecessor of the author of this Memorandum, I am compelled reluctantly to take notice of his assertions and inquire into the nature of his facts. Mr. Sweeting succeeded me in office in March , 1880, then fresh from the schools, and, therefore, not overburdened with knowledge of the responsi- bilities of office, of public health, vaccination, smallpox, and other infectious diseases, disinfection, etc. Two years later, Mr. Sweeting issues a manifesto couched in language so presumptuous and dogmatic that it might well excite a smile in those who have devoted themselves for years to this important subject.  It must be borne in mind that the Fulham Hospital, at whi'li Mr. Sweeting succeeded me ns medical superintt^iic ent, is one of the hospitals founded under the }.L.^ pices of the Metropolitan Asylums' Board. Twthe years ago, when this Board was started, we w ere given to understand that all the zymotic diser.^es which are isolated in their hospitals would cease to be epidemic. Mil- lions have been extravagantly spent by the Board, some of its members knighted, and I ask. What is there to show for this ? Have they eradicated epidemics of smallpox and scarlet fever ? Without entering into the details of figures, it is admitted on all hands that they have ignominiously failed. Near £100,000 have been lavished on the Fulham Hospital, which is now closed, and is likely to be shortly demolished.  This state of things is possibly one justification of Mr. Sweeting's Memorandum. Another is, a few months back Dr. Carpenter communicated an article to the Nineteenth Century on vaccination, and quoted some of Mr. Sweeting's figures. I wrote to Dr. Carpenter that his iniformation was incorrect. I have known the facts, and done the work as Medical Superintendent of the Hospital, and consequently I can state them, as my successor cannot, as he has to have recourse to the memories of subordinates in the hospital and the imperfect records kept there, since the information regarding the hospital up to March, 1880, is in my posses- sion. Dr. Carpenter, however, did not think it worth his while to publish the corrections I sent him, but played a game of sophistry with anti- vaccinators without my knowledge. I then forwarded the information to Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., who noticed it in his article in reply to Dr. Carpenter.  Such being the case, the Metropolitan Asylums Board conceived the idea of requesting Mr. Sweeting to issue a Memorandum ''based upon a verbal reply to a hostile critique " (by Dr. W. J. Collins), and thus to vindicate vaccination and themselves. They further requested Mr. Talbot, M.P., to bring it to the knowledge of the House of Commons. The Right Hon. J. G. Dodson, however, was unable to agree with Mr. Talbot as to the propriety of issuing the same as a Parliamentary paper. Had he done so, I should have requested Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., to inove that this letter be issued as an appendix to it.   But to return to Mr. Sweeting, who aspires to become a " Vaccination celebrity," but, neverthe- less, must first acquaint himself with some of the elements of the literature of the subject. In the first place, he misinforms his readers that Jenner was the nephew of Hunter, the great surgeon. He then plunges into the maze of opinions respecting the theory of vaccination, and, after groping about in the dark, arrives at no definite conclusion. To my mind the question was fairly set at rest by what I witnessed in Dr. Klein's experiments on the variolation of cows, and from the study of the literature of the subject, viz., that smallrpox cannot he inoculated on the bovine species in such a way as to p'oduce cowpox,  Mr. Sweeting then turns to " practical considerations," and reproduces the statistics that did duty for Dr. Carpenter. It has been justly observed that statistics can be turned about, and isolated facts can be brought together to explain away any theory. I believe in the soundness of the philo- sophy of deduction, but the logic of induction is in many cases sophistry. As an advocate of vaccination, I must say, as every honest man must, I abhor the tactics of statistics. In this second-hand table of Dr. Carpenter's, recourse is had to selected periods, and of unequal duration.  It is unworthy of scientific consideration, and I shall pass it over with but one remark upon the explanation of the table that is offered. The period 1801-10 is taken when the death-rate from general causes was 20,200, and that from smallpox, 2,040 - a proportion much lower than the preceding periods given. Mr. Sweeting says, '* It was during this period that vaccination began to be practis^, and it has been urged that as only 30,000 people were vaccinated during this period, the drop m the smallpox death-rate was not caused by vaccination. But the reply is obvious, that as the death-rate per million living was lower, the number of persons attacked would be much less, assuming as we fairly may, the fatality of smallpox to be uniform during both periods, and that, therefore, not only would the 30,000 people (or that proportion of them which lived in London) form part of the unattacked population, but also, by their non-liability to smallpox they would cease to be potential foci of the disease to their neighbours and those with whom they would come into contact." Not so "obvious" is it, however, that the population other than the 30,000 would not find sufficient foci of contagion in a place where inoculation was being carried on to a tremendous extent. Had he gone back to the years 1798-99-1800, when the ratio of smallpox deaths to 1,000 deaths from all causes was 128-72, 61-26, 10443 respectively, he would not have had any occasion to display his genius. An anti-vaccinator might as well have recourse to the period 1629-31, when the deaths from smallpox and Flox together to 1,000 deaths from all causes were only 8*17, 3*82, and 6-86 respectively, and very favourably compare it to 1876-78, when the ratio was 947, 3293, and 16-83 respectively, or to the period 1870-72, when the ratio was 12'63, 9837, and 2502 respectively. Even Mr. Sweeting's ingenuity is not equal to the awkward figures of the last decade, lo71-80, which he judiciously omits for a childishly inadequate reason.   .   97   The public are weary of official explanations and reassurances, and not unnaturally inquire - where is your boasted benefaction of the human race by vaccination, with all the public health schemes, asylum boards, and Taccination departments, with increasing public expenditure, giving wider scope for the jobberies of office ?  He next draws a comparison of mortality be- tween the two classes of vaccinated and un vaccinated, a question on which I have my opinion, which I shall express on a future occasion. Suffice it to say here that the statistics of  smallpox  mortality collected in the Metropolitan Asylums Board Hospitals are not accurate scientific observations, and the tables of statistics drawn up by the Board in 1879 are no better than accounts of cat and dog's meat.  Further on he gives proof of the non-liability to smallpox of patients admitted to the hospital through misadventure who have been vaccinated and revaccinated ; and states : '^ An administrative defect of this hospital furnishes us with an incontrovertible argument in its favour." Why WAS such a defect allowed to exist, I ask the managers in the name of the public and the rate- payers, when, from its opening to its closure, they spent nearly £100,000 ?  Mr. Sweeting next asserts that persons vaccinated during the incubation of smallpox " never contract the disease if the operation is successful, and provided the time of vaccination is within the first three or four days of the incubation period." Yet on p. 1 1 of his Report of the Fulham Hospital for 1880, he details the case of a boy, aged three years, who was " vaccinated on the third day of the incubation period,** yet he suffered from a discrete attack of smallpox, and exhibited " four recent vaccination vesicles side by side with those of variola."  Again, as to this particular question of  vaccination of persons exposed to smallpox, I feel he does not comprehend the question. He contri- buted a paper on '' Thirtv-three cases of concurrent variola and vaccinia, with analysis and remarks," to the British Medical Journal, of June 3, 1882. In a letter of mine in reply (July 20) I have conclusively shown that many of these cases of concurrent variola and vaccinia are cases of inoculation.  I might add here one word on the theory of vaccination. The existence of two diseases as concurrent variola and vaccinia in the same individual must prove that they are not identical, but members of a family.  Lastly, he deals with the question of the immu- nity of the hospital staff, and here he is leading his readers to follow him into a muddle. He cannot in any way speak of the condition of the members of the staff of the Fulham Hospital till March, 1880, simply because he knew nothing of the hospital till then, and there is no record in the hospital besides the Steward's engagement-book of the staff. He has derived some information about them from my Reports for the years 1878 and 1879 ; and was in duty bound to acknowledge this in his writing:*. Consequently the information sup- plied by him to Br. Ge<^rge Buchanan for the Local Government Board and Parliament was, to ."ay the least, uncertain and misleading. I informed Dr. Buchanan and Dr. Carpenter of   this as soon as my attention was called to it, and they had fallen into the mistake, but they declined to make any correction.  I have nothing to say regarding Mr. Sweeting's conclusions in his Memorandum from an official vaccinator's point of view. I have my opinions regarding vaccination, formed after a study of the subject for nearly twelve years, both in this country and in India, and I mean to give expres- sion to them on a future occasion. But I may remark, in conclusion, that as an advocate of vaoci* nation I look upon the system of vaccination practised in England at the present day as an abomination, and I would hail the day when compulsory vaccination is abolished in this country.  LA VACCINE.*  This remarkable work, edited by Dr. Hubert Boens, is full of information which it is in the highest degree desirable that medical men should master. It deals in the first place with the Congress of the International League of Anti- Vaccinators, held at Cologne, in October, 1881 ; but it is not confined to the Congress. It em- braces nearly all sides of the subject of  smallpox  in relation to vaccination.  Opening with an interesting correspondence from nearly every civilised country, it exhibits the growing interest (which is ripening into a great force) in the question of vaccination. It breathes throughout the strong conviction of the best- informed men, that the practice once loudly proclaimed as harmless, is at best injurious, opposed to human well-being, and destined to decay.  Dr. Weber, of Duiaburg, has an article on doctors and vaccination, which is worthy of the unbiased thought of all in the ranks of medicine. " Is not vaccination," he asks, " the negation of science ? Does it not choke investigation in the heavy atmosphere of credulity and dogma P" He continues: ''M.Jules Guerin, one of the most esteemed members of the Paris Academy, has revolted against the shackles they would put upon science and medicine by compulsory vaccination. Vaccination, said he, is not a last word; it is not a finality. It is but one tran- sitory, empirical remedy, a simple means used against a malady the cause of wnich we do not know, and in consequence, cannot know the true  remedy An Academy, whose principal  mission is to encourage progress, can it adopt a declaration which bars the future, arrests progress and research as to the true cause and real cure for a disease? Can it proclaim the obligation of all to hold fast to one empirical remedy, already losing its hold everywhere? The Academy, in its full light and independence, should consider it to be imposed upon the people, and indirectly upon doctors, as a barrier to scientific and therapeutic research in respect of smallpox." '' Is a doctor," he asks, " to be allowed to say what is fit and what is unfit everywhere but here ? If conscientiously opposed to the exhibition of vaccination upon a child, must he act against his jud<^ment ? "  * L" Vaccine an Point de Vup Uistonqne et Scientifiqae. Trayaax Originaaz du Congr^a de Cologne en Octobre. 1881. Corre pondanees, M^moires, Diacuisions. Par Hubert Boens.  Charleroi: 1882.   98      We wish everj doctor would consider this point. AVe know seyeral medical men who are vaccinating in opposition to their conyictions. They are not free, and in the interest of medicine and progress they ought to he free. Dr. Weher concludes his article hy declaring his helief that not only Jules Guerin, hut Virchow, will finish hy advocating the suppression of vaccination.  Those who have been accustomed to hear of the ''fearful ravages'' of the smallpox in this and in other lands ** two hundred years ago/' will read with great pleasure a most entertaining ac- count of " A Journey in Search of the Horrors of smallpox in Distant Lands/' hy Professor A. Yogt, of Berne. This article is not merely full of humour, it is full of truth and information ; and I am sure friend or opponent will finish it with pleasure when once it is hegun. Mr. Tehh's article on Sanitation is recommended to the consideration of Dr. A. Carpenter, who cannot possihly have read what is put forward here, or ne would not have penned such words as concluded his last public complaint against us.  In this work are not merely the history and exposure of the failure of vaccination, not merely the facts upon which this failure is declared, but earnest and honest attempts to lift the subject into the domain of science, and get at the cause, the means of controlling, and the means of extinguishing smallpox. Let earnest medical reformers read the articles of Dr. Boen, Dr. Pigeon, Dr. Oidtmann, Dr. Ancelon, Dr. Collins, and Dr. Weber, and Dr. Enoch liobinson's articles elsewhere, and they will not fail to recognise a true scientific aim in all. We are negationists, it is true, as regards a compulsory law ; but, as regards smallpox, as regards its cause, its spread, and its prevention, we claim to he missionaries of science second to none.  Nor is there wanting true eloquence, real dignity, and nobility of utterance, nor profound love of their kind, in the volume. When the lips that breathed the spirit of lofty hope, and tongues which spoke for freedom at Cologne are gone, the work which they attempted may not, perhaps, be accomplished (so great are the forces against them), but their spirit will survive and their descendants pronounce their praises.  A. W.   The SiTRE Preventives of Zymotic Disease. - Dr. S. E. Piper, of Darlington, in a speech reviewing the sanitary improvements effected In the town daring the past thirty years, observed : - " I have endeavoured to show the impor(-ance of removing all those physical causes which invite the approach of disease and aggravate its malignity. Typhus and its kindred maladies are not the inevitable conditions of our being; they are self-imposed, and the consequence of our neglect and folly. We know the conditions which regulate their origin, progress, and departure, and these conditions are amenable to human control ; and in proportion as sanitary works advance, these epidemics will decline, and when these arrangements shall have become perfected, the most frequent and fatal of them will disappear. In the science of health there are more exact demonstrable truths than in the science of disease, and the advantage of 'prevention' over cure requires no proof.'   t"   NOTES OF A TRAVELLER.  No. 2.  Havikq a short time at Folkestone, en route for the continent, I inquired at a bakers shop in the High Street if the proprietor could inform me of anyone interested in the vaccination question. " Yes," said the bsker's wife, " there 's Dr. Bateman ; he vaccinates all the children." " Oh ! " I said, seeing that my question was not quite apprehended, " but do you know of anyone here who does not hold with vaccination ?" ** Yes," she quickly responded, " I don*t hold with it my- self. I have two children not vaccinated, and if I had twenty they should not be done. I have seen healthy children," she continued with energy, ^ break out in great sores from vaccination, and that 's a nice thing for a mother, isn't it, sir? In my opinion it's no good to anyone but the doctors." " But/* I asked, ** don't your neighbours generally approve of vaccination ?'" '* Not one in a hundred, sir. I should think not indeed." As I was about leaving the Princess Louise steamer on its arrival at Boulogne, bag in hand, I passed a woman struggling to get through the crowd with the impeciiment of a big, sickly-looking baby in her arms, going, as I learned, to meet her husband, the master of a brig then at Boulogne. I inquired if her baby had been vaccinated. She said it had, a year ago, but not until her husband had received several summonses, adding, in a sorrowful tone, " Baby had never been well since." " Was it well before it was vaccinated? " I asked. " Yes, quite well." I said it was a pity to submit her child to such a dangerous affliction. '' Yes, it was, but I'll take good care to have no more done," and so we climbed the ladder on to the jetty and went our several ways.  While walking one Saturday afternoon in July, along the delightful promenade which skirts the river Ouse, near the bridge at Bedford, and is justly considered the pride and ornament of the town, a smart shower compelled me to seek the nearest shelter, which chanced to be the covered passage of a small beer-house, kept by a Mr. Rainbow. A married couple occupied a portion of the avi^lable standing-room. The woman was drinking a glass of beer, and the man smoking a short pipe, with evident contentment, after their weea's work. Replying to my questions, they told me they lived in the neighbouring village, where the doctor came twice a year to see after vaccinating the children. '' Mine was done all right, and no harm that I could see," said the mother. " But," the man interposed, " there was some spots and sores after it" " So there was, but they got over it, but all chil'ren are not alike. Some are never well after it, and now they're beginning to make quite a fuss about it in Bedford, as I 'ear." <" I don't hold with it/' said the husband, ''anyhow, but we can't help oursel's."  A Mrs. Shepard, newsvendor, said she would do all she coula to distribute and make known the anti- vaccination literature, adding, ''I don't believe in vaccination. I've seen too much of it." " What have you seen? " I inquired. "I 've seen one of my own sister's children die of it, as fine a child as anyone would wish to see hefore vaccination, then red sores all over the head -      99   they called it blood-j>oi8oniDff, and the doctor said it was the  vaccination ." Here the husbaody having OTsrheard the conversation, came into the shop, and said ''The death was caused by bad vaccination, for you must know that there is both good and bad matter." His wife said ^* My hus- band and I don*t see alike about this. He says you should vaccinate as long as it s the law, for if it was right to disobey one law you might disobey all. But," said the little wife, eagerly, " when your children*s health is imperilled, the law is of no account." I ventured to point out that it had only been by resisting and disobeying bad laws, in times gone by, that these laws had been abolished and our freedom secured. '' No more children of mine shall be vaccinated, law or no law," said the wife, " and it's right down cruel to attempt it."  The opposition to compulsory vaccination was initiated at Bedford twenty years ago by Dr. Crick, and there have never been wanting devoted men and women ready to stand by the truth through good and evil report, and to bear testi- mony before the magistrates concerning the injustice of this most unrighteous law, and to prove their fidelity like their great prototype, John Bunyan, by suffering imprisonment for conscience sake. On occasions, as many as forty anti-vaccinators have been summoned before the Bench for trial and punishment at one time. It is now the general opinion, which my experience confirmed, that all but a small minority of the voters, or, as one of my informants put it, '' all but the doctors and their friends," are opposed to compulsory vaccination, and nearly all to  vaccination altogether. Many with whom I had speech expressed their strong sense of the injustice under which they laboured in the fact that their views were misrepresented in Parliament by Mr. Whitbread and Mr. Magniac, their present borough members. When pressed by their constituents, as they have been many times, to sup- port a Bill for the abolition of the Vaccination Acts, these conaplaisant gentlemen have consented to vote for a Boyal Commission to inquire into their working. They have given no evidence of having examined any of the vast body of statistical and medical evidence against vaccination now available to all inquirers, such, for example as that brought before the Anti - Vaccination Congresses of Paris and Cologne. This unsatis- factory state of affairs will, it is believed, be endured no longer by their patient and confiding constituents. If the present members wish to retain their positions, they must examine the grounds of this opposition to compulsory vaccination, so widespread in all parts of the country, and without much delay. Already the initial steps have been taken by the Anti- Vaccination League at Bedford to follow the example of Banbury and Chatham, and seek representatives who respect their wishes on a question in which the public health and parental responsibility is so deeply involved, and which they rightfully consider to be one of paramount importance.  Bedford, like many another place, is not wanting in men who in pulpit and platform can eloquently declaim about the civilisation of the age, the rights of conscience, and thank God for the liberties which are theirs- men who delight to magnify the memory of John Bunyan, who, for   conscience sake, was immured in Bedford gaol for twelve years ; but these same men are comfortably resigned to the repeated prosecution and punishment of their own fellow citizens whose only crime is the determined defence of their offspring. One of the loudest spoken of these orators, when asked a short time ago his opinion concerning the imprisonment (with the added cruelty of a plank bed and insufficient clothing on keen winter nights) of one of the persecuted anti-vaccinators, said so far as he (the parson) was concerned, he might remain in gaol until his children were vaccinated. Need it be said that not those who deliver orations in favour of liberty to secure the plaudits of their hearers are its true friends, but rather those like our persecuted friends at Bed- ford and Leicester, who are ready to suffer for conscience sake when liberty is assailed by its enemies - these are the true successors to the noble army of martyrs.  At Kempston, a lar^e village two miles from Bedford, the feeling is m no wise less intense than in the borough itself. A short time ago, on one of the days appointed for vaccination, the mothers having been dragooned to the station under the threats of summonses by the vaccination officers were awaiting, with their babies, the operation, some with indifference, others with fear and trembling. The doctor having made one puncture on a child, the indignant mother held up ner clenched hand in defiance, her maternal instincts aroused, and said : "Doctor, if you cut that baby again 1 11 slap your face." The doctor said, "My good woman, leave that to me." " Cut that baby's arm again if you dare I " she repeated, with mi!^chief in her eye, evidently meaning business. The doctor saw that this was no sham indignation, and not wishing to risk an encounter in which he would probably have come out second best, succumbed to the exigencies of the situation. A single puncture sufficed for this baby, as prescribed by the immortal Jenner.   JAMES HOWARD, ESQ., M.P. FOR BEDFORDSHIRE.  In reply to a request from Mr. S. Ashby that he would present a petition in favour of Mr. P. A. Taylor's Bill and vote in its support, Mr. Howard wrote as follows : -  Clapham Park, Bedfordshire, June 17, 1882.  Dear Sib, - I shall be pleased to present the Petition. There is no chance of the Bill coming on next Wednesday, and very little chance this Session.  I have read a good deal upon the subject of Vaccination, on both sides. The evidence is most conflicting, and it is very difficult for an unbiased mind to form a definite opinion. - I am, yours faithfully, James Howard.  [Of course Mr. Taylor will have Mr. Howard's vote. Mr. Howard has far too fine a sense of justice to inflict penalties on those who refuse to submit to a rite as to the benefit of which he is himself uncertain. - Ed.]   New South Wales. - Dr. Brereton writes from Sydney, May 80, " So far we are complete victors over the vaccinists, and are preparing for vigorous action in the future, should occasion require."   EXPERIENCE VERSUS LOQIC.  The origioal VacciDe Pock Institution was founded by Dr. George Pearson, in 1799, Jenner, out of jealousy, declining to take any part in it. The institution prospered, in spite of rivals, but a resolution passed in 1805 is f aid to have led to its destruction. It ran as follows : -  Vaccine Pock Institution,  Broad Street, Golden-sqnare. General Quarterly Court, Nov. 5, 1805.  Resolved - That according to the experience of the medical establishment of this Institution, it appears that the inoculation for the cowpock affords security against the smallpox equally with variolous inoculation, and that the new practice possesses all the advantages already stated to the public.  Resolved -That, in order to give a further proof to the public, and to afford an inducement for in~ formation adverse to the new practice, the following proposal be made public, viz. : - That, in future, every patient who shall be vaccinated at this Institution, on discharge, shall receive a Certificate, stating that such patient has gone through the cowpock, and engaging that if hereafter the said patient shall take the 8malI-pox, he or she shall be entitled to the sum of Five Guineas, to be paid from the funds of this Institution at the first General Court, after the proofs have been given, according to the rules of the medical establishment.  William Sancho, Secretary.  The offer attested the sincerity of the conductors of the Institution, but so many patients turned up to claim Five Guineas, having had smallpox after cowpox, that it was decided to wind up.  Dr. Pearson held that it was impossible to be re-vaccinated. He argued that since no one could have smallpox twice, no one could have the equivalent of smallpox, namely cowpox, twice. It was a strictly logical contention ; but facts did not correspond to the logic. Pearson also objected to the Variolous Test, or inoculation with smallpox after inoculation with Cowpox to prove that the constitution was fortified against attack. He preferred cowpox to  smallpox  for the purpose, as milder and less liable to dangerous results. Strange to say, he found that after cowpox it was impossible to have Cowpox - at least immediately. Hence he was confirmed in his opinion that cowpox after Cowpox was impossible ; just as otiiers argued on the same grounds that smallpox after cowpox was impossible. Yet at this day none doubt that Pearson was in error ; for all believe in the possibility of re-vaccination, or cowpox after Uow-pox ; likewise of smallpox after cowpox.  Kentigbbn.   How Vaccination Made smallpox Milder. - Smallpox, we believe, has been more prevalent than for many years past, and has assumed a more than usually virulent character, many of the cases having been of the confluent kind. So little modi- fied has the disease in some cases appeared to have been by the influence of the vaccine inoculation, that death has ensued. - London Medical Repoai' iory, 1817, p. 183.   smallPOX AND VACCINATION IN INDIA.  smallpox is universally prevalent, carrying off tens of thousands of victims, children especially, in almost every province year after year, and imparing or disfiguring others for life. The government has for many years made persistent efforts to arrest the disease by means of vaccination, with remarkable success in some districts, like that of Kumaon in the Himalayas, but generally with indifferent success, and often without any perceptible result. The practice of vaccination not being in vogue, inoculation used to be largely adopted by the natives in many districts, but has now been prohibited, though not always prevented actually. The State everywhere undertakes or encourages vaccination. Hundreds of native vaccinators are employed, and returns are rendered of large numbers of persons said to Ix) successfully vaccinated. Nevertheless smallpox appears again and again with terrible manifestations before the people, and causes them to disbe- lieve the efficacy of vaccination. - " India in 1880," by Sir B. Temple, Bart., late Governor of Bombay, Lieut. -Grovemor of Bengal, and Financial Minister of India.   Collection of Evidence. - One advantage of the weekly issue of  would be the gathering together of the scattered evidence as to the evils resulting from vaccination. I know of a family who have been placed in an awkward di- lemma in consequence of inducing their servant to be vaccinated. Previous to the operation, she was a healthy girl, but now she is constantly troubled with a nasty eruption. I am afraid the Inquirer is badly advertised. Though for the last two years an opponent of vaccination, it is only within the present year that I became acquainted with its existence. - ^W. H. 0.  Dr. W. J. Collins has been engaged in a correspondence on the "Ethics of Compulsory  vaccination " in the Medical Press. It is needless to say that he has maintained his position firmly and, we think, conclusively against his adversaries.  Our praise and thanks may go for little, but we cannot refrain from their expression toward the editor of the Echo for the admirable impartiality he has so long displayed in the conduct of the vaccination controversy.  Mr. John SMrriiESs, of Albert-road, Kingston-on- Thames, was summoned before the Borough Bench on July 6, for neglecting to have liis child vaccinated, and managed to make an excellent defence. He said he was sorry if he had to break the law, and that he was willing to comply with the Act if a competent practitioner would guarantee - first, that his child, if vaccinated, should not have smallpox ; second, supposing his child had  smallpox , that it should not prove fatal ; and third, that no disease would follow the introduction of virus into his child. The Bench said they sym- pathised with Mr. Sroithers in the view which he held, but still, as the law had been broken, they had no option but to impose a fine of 5s., and costs 12s. In paying the penalty, Mr. Smithers said he looked upon it as blood-money. He added that he should never have the child vaccinated. The law was most iniquitous, and ought never to have been passed.   He who knows oaly his own side of the esse, knows little of that.- J. Qtvamt Mill. Prejndice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.- Aubsxt Db Ymme.   Dire Uatdttatinn Ittrpur^r   j^d df£e.CLl±k Ste.iLLe.ui.   Vol. IV., No. 43.]   OCTOBER, 1882.   [Price Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.   the Norwich Inquiry has been conducted and concluded to our complete satisfaction. It has proved exactly what we desired to have proved ; and the threatened medical demonstration to the contrary was unattempted in presence of the irresistible evidence. Not in Egypt did Sir Garnet Wolseley bring matters to a more conclusive issue than did Mr. Corrie Qrant in Norwich. Our readers will naturally turn to our pages for a report of the proceedings ; but we await the summary and judgment of the Commissioners, in order to determine what to produce and withhold. We have a verbatim report of the entire investigation, and to publish the whole may be unnecessary. We shall be guided by circumstances, taking care that what- ever is done shall be done thoroughly and to good purpose. The Inquiry may be described as a complete exposition of Public Vaccination in theory, practice, and accidents, with a curious revelation of medical human nature, constituting a body of information from which the opposition to vaccination may draw endless arguments and illustrations ; in short, a treasure that must not be lost. The reports in the Badern DaUy iVeM were copious and accurate, and Daylight^ a sprightly Norwich weekly, commencing with the number for Sept. 9, is reproducing the evidence in brief.   The comments of the newspapers are held in reserve until the publication of the official report on the Inquiry, but some articles have appeared which serve for little else than illustrations of the prevalent editorial ignorance. It is assumed that erysipelas is an untoward accident an occa- sional mishap that in some inscrutable fashion may result from vaccination. For example, in the course of an elaborate assumption of omnis- cience in the Olasgoio Herald of September 6, it is observed : -  ''No one believes for a moment that if bad lymph, or lymph from a diseased source, be sown within the blood of the healthy subject the latter   can escape the serious consequences of the infection. Every medical man freely admits this inevitable contention. But it is going a step beyond the bounds of proved facts, and of legitimate hypothesis as well, to suggest that pure lymph will produce disease in the healthy infant or adult as the result of careful vaccination. This point is exactly that at which anti-vaccinators and sensible men part company. Just as a scratch which in one man received to-dav heals tomorrow, in another man causes death from erysipelas, so careful vaccination, harmless in itself, and, as we believe, altogether beneficial, may, like almost every other circumstance of life, induce a fatal issue utterly unforeseen by any exercise of human ingenuity.''  The case of ignorance in favour of vaccination could scarcely be set forth with greater perspicuity. Erysipelas is not an accident of  vaccination, but of its essence. The rings of inflammation that surround the points of incision are erydpela- tous, and merely require extension to warrant the full dedgnation. With Jenner, erysipelas was the proof of effective vaccination. In denouncing cowpox, which did not protect from smallpox, he gave as conclusive reason against its use, that it was attended with no erysipelas. To have talked, therefore, to Jenner of vaccination with- out erysipelas would have been to describe what was ef no avail agunst smallpox. Vaccination, according to orthodox doctrine, is the production of a mild form of smallpox in the patient, with illness more or less severe, resulting in a constitutional change. The fact of illness is recognised in the instruction to vaccinators to operate on none save healthy children, the assumption being that a stock of vitality is essential to withstand the disease about to be generated. To suppose otherwise - to represent vaccination as a medical rite, harmless as baptism, effected with virus, "pure lymph ,*' that is not virulent - is to stand convicted of what is neither good sense nor sound science.   Thbrb is nothing singular, we say, about the Norwich cases, except in the circumstances which have favoured their detection and exposure. They are instances of what are continually occurring, but which are explained away, accounted for, and   covered up. The poor upon whom public yac- cinators practise are amazingly indulgent and credulous, and, as some of the Norwich women showed, as ready to stand up for the doctors as they are for husbands who maltreat and kick them. Resolved to bring cases of ''vaccination disaster " to light, the London Society has had a form prepared, '' Particulars of Cases of Injury or Death following VaccinatioD," which may be had on application to the Secretary, Mr. Young. We are often blamed for bringing vague charges against vaccination. Let us make them definite and press them home, and especially upon the attention of the Local Government Board, after the example of our Norwich friends. There is no difficulty in obtaining cases against  vaccination: the difficulty consists in the time and trouble requisite to establish them beyond dispute, and the patience and persistency to compel public attention.  Dr. J. B. Mitchell proposes to revive the Variolous Test to settle the vaccination controversy, and challenges Mr. P. A. Taylor to proceed with him to some country where inocula- Hoo with smallpox is not forbidden, there to subject the Jennerian doctrine to the specified ordeal, the defeated party paying all expenses. One of two alternatives - either Dr. Mitchell is singulariy ignorant of the history of vaccination, or he is intent on a little amusement. When vaccination came into vogue, the Variolous Test was constantly applied. A patient inoculated with cowpox was subsequently inoculated vnth smallpox, and as the smallpox inoculation was usually without effect, it was said, '* Behold the triumph ! The patient is fortified against  smallpox  for life.*' Nothing so powerfully contributed to the acceptance and ^lory of vaccination as this Variolous Test. And yet it was utterly fal- lacious! For, be it observ£i-iife:n^tt"£&ccination is a fever, and^ap^j^^ie, the prevalence ol one fever in the hj^ exclades another fever ; and therefore it jfT ^^^ inoculation with  smallpox , whilst t^fg^Qjof cowpox had not died away, wifouQ^g that Sm^QQ^, however, cases of  smallrfeesible. Yet Rt^cinated began to occur, 0r/ Pearson was in erroi . % .^, . .,.  possibility of re-Vaccinati^ted, losmg faith m their  cowpox ; likewise of Smabll-pox inoculation, and  ived the virus exactly """"~" 'he illusory character How Vaccination Made SMAiame manifest. It smallpox, we believe, has been, vaccinated could than for many years past, and has .^^ immediately than neually virulent character, ma •'  having been of the confluent kind, lertam mterval  fied has the disease in some cases appus Test lost been by the influence of the vaccinei ^ ^^^^^ that death has ensued. - London MeatK fory, 1817, p. 183.   in 1807, " That no process can always secure the constitution from the effects of variolous poison when inserted into the skin." Whilst the Variolous Test was thus exploded in Jenner's lifetime, the practice of re-vaccination has deprived it of the last vestige of validity. If inoculation with cowpox, as a mild form of smallpox, could prevent the inoculation of  smallpox , surely inoculation with cowpox should prevent subsequent inoculation with itself 1 For this reason Dr. George Pearson, chief among the early promoters of vaccination, pronounced re-vaccination impossible. " Since,'' said he, '' cowpox prevents smallpox, cowpox must prevent cowpox." Such was logic, but facts did not answler to the logic. cowpox after cowpox at a suitable interval is a recognised experience, and annimal vaccination is now the counsel of perfection addressed to us by experts. To keep off smallpox it is necessary to keep up vaccine fever. It is for these obvious reasons that we say of Dr. Mitchell that he is either singularly ignorant of the history of vaccination, or is intent on a lltfle amusement at our expense. As for Mr. P. A. Taylor, he is too seriously occupied to be drawn into such nonsense.   Dr. T. H. Haylb writes in the Rochdale Observer: -  '^ I consider it extremely dangerous to vaccinate with human lymph. I would never allow any child I had anything to do with to be vaccinated with it ; for though bad results may not follow, you can never be sure that they will not.  ''The plan I would follow is this: Abolish compulsory human vaccination, and also  vaccination in infancy, but keep a stock of calf lymph constantly going, and whenever an epidemic of smallpox threatened a town or district, let everyone, young or old, be vaccinated or re-vaccinated."  The motive of this advice is, that vaccination to be effective must be recent - must be fresh, in opposition. Dr. Guy, at the meeting of the Statistical Society in June, observed : That it is now admitted by competent authorities that vaccination during epidemics of smallpox tends to diffuse rather than arrest the disease, and that, instead of being practised at such times, it should be suspended. We therefore leave Dr. Hayle to square his advice with Dr. Guy and other competent authorities. As for calf-lymph. Dr. Hayle has first to define what it is, and next to explain how cowpox, which was known to be of no avail against smallpox last century, has acquired its prophylaxy in this. Lastly, says Dr. Hayle : -  " During the commencement of the centurv, smallpox began to decline in a remarkable manner, and Kept on declining until about the middle of the century. For the last twenty years, however, it has been getting worse again, each epidemic being severer than the one preceding it. The influence that caused smallpox to decline, I take to be vaccination; and the reason of its subsequent increase to be the gradual deterioration of the lymph/'  The ascription of the decline of smallpox to Taccination is purely imaginary. The dedine in smallpox had set in before vaccination was heard of, and was continued in countries where no more than a small percentage of the population was vaccinated. Unless, therefore. Dr. Hayle is a believer in vicarious vaccination, or, in other words, that the vaccination of, say, ten per cent, of a community preserves the other nine-tenths from smallpox, he has no warrant for his contention.   the Registrar-General claims that smallpox  has been stamped out in Scotland by vaccination,  the admirable commonsense of the people closing  their ears to the seductions of English anti-vaccinators. The Lancet, on the other hand, describes  Scottish vaccination as grossly defective, and,  what is worse, badly paid for, and prophesies  that, by-and-by, the Scots will discover that  they have been resident in a fools' paradise. Now.  we have another revelation from Dr. Littlejohn,  Medical Officer to the Scottish Board of Health.  Speaking at Worcester, he taid : -  ** During the last two years, no fewer than eight distinct outbreaks of smallpox have occurred in Edinburgh, and in five of these the disease was traced to London, where, to the disgrace of sanitation, smallpox is endemic, exposing the whole country to the risk of infection. I have no hesitation in saying that had not the first cases in these outbreaks been promptly removed to an hospital, smallpox would have prevailed in an epidemic form among our comparatively unprotected population."  Thus vaccination has failed to keep smallpox out of Edinburgh. Within two years there have been eight distinct outbreaks, which have been arrested by the vigilance of Dr. Littlejohn and his staff in isolating the sufferers ; and, let us add, in cleansing and ventilating their habitations. Dr. Lyon PJayfair lately observed that he would stake the defence of vaccination on experience in Scotland, but on which version of experience ? If the Registrar-Qeneral is right, what shall be said of the fools' paradise of the JLancet f and what of Dr. Littlejohn's claim to have arrested eight distinct outbreaks of smallpox within two years by isolation and sanitation?   ** Had the patient been vaccinated he would not have died," is a frequent remark, spite of continual evidence to the contrary. smallpox has   been prevalent in Wednesbury, a thoroughly vaccinated town, yet in the Lancet we read : -  " Up to August 14 there had been in all 217 cases of smallpox in Wednesbury, of whom 15 had died, 11 of the deaths having occurred in un vaccinated persons."  From whence came these unvaccinated persons in vaccinated Wednesbury? What was their status, and what their agesP Mr. W. C. Garman, the public vaccinator, writing in the Birmingham Daily Post of August 26, observes : -  " For twelve years my work has been periodically inspected, and my vaccination placed in the first order of merit, as proved by my always receiving the Government grants for the excellence and quantity of my operations. I have this morning, August 23, examined the boo]is of the vaccination officer, and find that there were only six infants of three months old and upwards unvaccinated in the whole town, and they have been done today Instead, therefore, of Wednesbury being a badlv vaccinated town, it can claim to rank among the best."  How then, we repeat, are the eleven unvaccinated dead to be accounted for? May we not surmise that they were registered unvaccinated because they died? " For, you know, if they had been vaccinated, they either would not have taken smallpox, or if they had, the disease would have been so mild as to have done no injury."   '* you exhibit less than jour usual discretion," writes M.D., " when you ascribe to Dr. Alfred Carpenter ' the lie at a venture.' Dr. Johnson said of a fellow : ' He lies, and he knows he lies,' but that was a hundred years ago. I daresay lying is as common as ever, but we do not say so. We set what we think the fact against its asserted opposite, and leave observers to draw the conclusion, which is quite as effective as the older and more brutal mode. It is Dr. Carpenter's habit to make up his nodnd on a matter, and to treat his conviction as the ^n"^A,andthe contrary as ^^<?^t;t/, and then fire off whatever comes handiest at liis adversary. In his calmer moments he knows just as well as you do, that it is nonsense to say that fools find the money for the agitation against  vaccination, and that rogues spend it, but because it seemed a sharp thing to say, he said it. Some hold that even the devil should have his due, but what- ever is the devil to Dr. Carpenter is hit fair or foul with savage indifference. The devil, he thinks, has no rights which a Churchman like himself is bound to respect. Damage him anyhow, but damage him, is the sanctified method ; and this understood all is understood. As a question of tactics you have no reason to deprecate outbreaks like those of Dr. Carpenter.   They are of the sort that promote a rising cause. Their extravagance serves to set off and commend your reasonable position to the public. If it were right to pray for evil as a means to good, you might say, May Carpenters multiply and be provoked ! "  What does keep, and what wUl keep, the agitation against vaccination alive is the compulsory law, and the result will be the general discredit of the practice itself. This many of the more discreet vaccinators perceive; and they would therefore fain set a limit to the penalties against resistance. They would persecute, but mildly. They argue that a small fine would ensure almost universal compliance; and they would offer as alternatives vaccination, or a payment for regis- tration as un vaccinated. " If," say they, " we cannot enforce vaccination, why make the ineffectual attempt, and provide a triumph for whoever is pleased to defy the law? " But fire-eaters like Dr. Carpenter will hear of no such miserable compromise with '' wickedness." They demand absolute submission. It is not, they say, for law-makers to make terms with law- breakers, but to compel obedience at whatever cost. They would therefore tear the infant from the mother's arms, and have it vaccinated in spite of the protest of the parents. " Why," they demand, '^ should the majesty of English law parley with fools and fanatics who are too stupid or perverse to recognise what is for their own good?" Further, they say, vaccination affords only a temporary security against smallpox, and it is necessary to repeat the operation periodically. Wherefore, they recommend compulsory re-vaccination for the whole population. '' It is not," they say, '* a matter to be argued, but a plain duty to be enforced, and it is sheer imbecility to hesitate in presence of a peril so frightful as that of smallpox, which at any moment may dedmate tha land." Rebellion has no terror for these nodical Jacobins. Let Parliament give the word, and they are ready to rush forth (under protection of the police), shrieking '^ Vaccination ou Mori ! Who are you that presume to set your contemptible judgment against the wisdom of the High Priests of Science I " Such are the counsels of Br. Alfred Carpenter and his comrades ; but, alas ! they have to reckon with weak-kneed politicians. Sir Stafford Northcote is as unlikely to entertain their heroic projects as Mr. Gladstone. Lord Salisbury is, however, of sterner fibre, and might be tempted to confront and crush ''the wicked," who not only scoff at vaccination, but will not have it, and are continually inciting others to follow their evil example.   Dr. Cabpbnter holds that neither Mr. Herbert Spencer nor Mr. P. A. Taylor are of any account in the discusdon of vaccination until they have spent some weeks as nurses in a smallpox hospital. Could any deliverance be more irrelevant? How could a course of nursing prove that vaccination prevents smallpox where the majority of patients are vaccinated? When Mr. Taylor says that many thousands of the vaccinated died in the epidemic of 1871-72, Dr. Carpenter replies : -  ** This fallacy has been ezposed over and over again, but like many similar fallacies, Mr. Taylor reiterates it as if it were fact. The vaccination in most of these cases was in name only."  Here we have another instance of Dr. Car- penter's audadty. With a somewhat intimate acquaintance with the discussion connected with the epidemic of 1871-72, we never heard " the fallacy ezposed over and over again " until reported by Dr. Carpenter ; and so far as we can ascertain, his assertion that the vaccination in most of the cases of smallpox ''was in name only " is an evolution from out his internal consdousness. Mr. Taylor was, therefore, justified in replying : -  " I ask where has this weakest of excuses been put forward ' over and over again? ' I have not seen it, and I beg to doubt the fact. Higher authorities than Dr. Carpenter have accounted for the extreme mortality of the last smallpox epidemic, but not in this feeble fashion. Dr. Cameron, M.P., accounts for it under a theory of the deterioration of the lymph in use ; while Dr. W. B. Carpenter declared the epidemic to be of such exceptional malignity as to beat down the defences of vaccination."  The latter is the favourite explanation. The epidemic originated in the Franco-German War (though prevalent in London before that war broke out), and such was its virulence, that not even vaccination could withstand it. Neverthe- less, vaccination was of infinite advantage; it mitigated what it did not prevent, and saved us from an overwhelming calamity. As we read in a report of the Committee of the House of Commons, dated May 23, 1871, prepared under medical dictation : -  "Your Committee believe that if vaccination had not been general, the epidemic now prevalent would have become a pestilence, raging with the destructive force of the Plague of the middle ages."  Dr. Carpenter's explanation of the failure of vaccination in 1871-72 is forced and dumsy compared with this. He is deficient in the touch of this quack who wrote in the name of the Commons Committee. It is genius of his sort that is required to rescue vaccination from reproach, and to convert its failures into victories. Con  .aider the thousands of the Taocinated stricken with smallpox in 1871| and in the midst of the disaster, this Cagliostro, unabashed, observing, *' Be not dismayed. As we see, many have suc- cumbed, but, save for their vaccination, we should have been involyed in a pestilence, raging with the destructive force of the Plague of the middle ages ! " That is how to do it !  Dr Cabpbmteb illustrates the extent of his own acquaintance with smallpox by following Sir William Gull (and dmilar novices who speak from tradition) in the assertion that " vaccination is as protective agfdnst smallpox as smallpox itself." Such was the invention when smallpox was first proved to follow vaccination. " I never supposed,'' said Jenner, *' that vaccination would be a better defence against smallpox than  smallpox  itself" - the statement being an artifice to break the fall of the original dogma of absolute protection. smallpox follows smallpox, but so rarely that a practitioner of such wide experience as Dr. Qeorge Gregory questioned its occurrence to the end of his life. Mr. Marson, when asked in 1871, "Do you consider that smallpox is as great a protection as vaccination? " replied, " Yes, much greater. There are a few cases of persons who have had smallpox after smallpox." It is needless to recite the record of smallpox after vaccination. As Mr. Marson anticipated, when vaccination is universalised, we shall see ' smallpox hospitals entirely occujaed by the vaccinated and re-vaccinated, as was the case at the Bromley Hospital last year. With similar flow of fancy. Dr. Carpenter predicts " that if the 20,000 medical men who are practising in the British Empire were unvaccinated, 1,000 of them, at the lowest estimate, would sleep the sleep of death within a month of the time when they were called upon to attend a case of smallpox." Why 1,000? If unvaccinated, they would all catch smallpox, and as the mortality among the unvaccinated is at least 40 per cent., 8,000 would sleep the sleep of death. Dr. Carpenter does not realise his advantages. Why, too, does he forget to add that, at the lowest estintate, 6,000 would live to drag out a miserable existence with scarred and pitted countenances? Why, when laying on agony at discretion, not lay it on thicker? Descending to matter-of-fact, we ask Dr. Carpenter how the same medical men, fortified with no such rite as vaccination, survive attendance upon scarlatina- a disease as infectious and deadly as  smallpox , and much commoner?   for the smallpox germ to live upon; it would abort and come to nothing, even if it did find admission." Something of this sort we are always saying ; the " holiness " comes in rather oddly in the Doctor's discourse - no doubt derived from his attendance on the Archbishop of Canterbury, being a little natural local colour. Dr. W. J. Collins, writing in the JBcho of August 81, observes : -  ** I gather from Dr.. Carpenter's letters that his contention stands thus : - smallpox results from ' unholy and unhealthy lives,' from 'doing wicked things, and from 'promoting wicked agitations.' Now, vaccination protects us from smallpox - ergo, vaccination enables us to live ' unholy and unhealthy lives,' and ' do wicked things ' with impunity. Therefore, to oppose its compulsorv enforcement is ' wicked ' and * fraught with terrible consequences t ' "  Dr. Carpenter's logic lends itself to many curious and amusing concludons, which, with loss to attend to, we nught profitably pursue. For the present-, however, we must say to him, '' an revair/ You cannot dislike us more than we enjoy you, and when next you feel impelled to testify against our wickedness, and to prophesy at large, we shall be ready to hear, mark, and answer."   ** If we lived natural and holy lives," says Dr. Carpenter, '' there would be nothing in the blood   DR. A. CARPENTER'S LOGIC.  Dr Carpenter talks of logic, but does not formulate that which he plumes himself upon. Let us attempt the task : -  1. Properly vaccinated people are protected against the attacks of smallpox.  2. Some vaccinated people contract smallpox.  3. Ergo, their vaccination was not proper ; they were vaccinated in name only.  This is the '' argument in a circle," in which the point to be proved is taken for granted.  Agun: -  1. Vaccination is protective.  2. Some vaccinated persons contract smallpox. '  3. Therefore they ought to have been revaccinated. This is the ''non sequitur argument."  Again,- Compare the anti-vaccine logic *.-  1. Vaccination protects the vaccinated.  2. Some vaccinated people contract smallpox.  3. Ergo, vaccination protects a person so long as he escapes smallpox.  Or thus : -  1. Thousands of the vaccinated have contracted smallpox and died of it.  2. Their vaccination did not protect them.  3. Therefore, protection must be sought elsewhere.  The opponents of vaccination look for protection from smallpox in cleanliness and fresh air, to the great dismay of the medical profession in general..   THE NORWICH INQUIRY. [From the JSastem Daify Press, Sept. 6.]  Wb assume that most of our readers have become acquainted with the evidence given before the Commissioners who have been inquiring into the facts connected with the alleged deaths and in* juries from vaccination. We are not about to g^ve any opinion as to the tendency of that evidence. The fine summary of the case as it presents itself to the mind of the able gentleman engaged by the an tir vaccinators (Mr. Corrie Grant) gives one view of it, but it will be left to the Inspectors to furnish theirs in the report which they will make to the Local Government Board. We may, however, say that the inquiry has fully justified the course taken by our fellow-Ksidzen, Mr. Lee Bliss, in bringing the matter before the attention of the authorities, and also the action of our local representatives in pressing upon the Board the importance of a public investigation. The four cases of death and the five cases of injury were so strikingly associated with vaccination that to have passed them over without notice would have been 80 great an act of injustice toward the parents as to amount to a public scandal. The citizens, therefore, are to be congratulated on the fact that the inquiry was ordered, that two such able gpentle- men as Mr. Henley and Dr. Airey were appointed, and that they conducted the proceedings with the greatest impartiality and patience. The facts being proven, it is perfectly clear that there was one of two points to be determined, namely, whether the vaccinator or vaccination itself was at fault Mr. Grant, in his closing address, tells us that there are five things to which the deaths and injuries may be imputed. These five are - 1, the vaccinifers, or the children from whom the vaccine was taken ; 2, the mode of vaccination ; 3, the health or condition of the vaccinated ; 4, the existence of an epidemic in the city ; and 6, the lymph itself. It will be seen, however, that, as we may safely exclude the fourth condition - the existence of an epidemic of erysipelas - the five resolve themselves into two, inasmuch as Dr. Guy is responsible for the first three. The question really is, then, whether Dr. Guy or  vaccination is impeachable as the cause of death. Mr. Grant, under every head, emphatically exone- rates Dr. Guy. He directly condemns the system. He appealed to the evidence of Mr. Lyddon, Mr. Crook, and Dr. Guy, in support of his statement, two of them having, it will be remembered, admitted that erysipelas might follow vaccination after the use of what appeared to be ''pure lymph." He referred to the somewhat notable fact that Dr. Eade, Mr. Cadge, Mr. Crosse, and Mr. Williams, who had been summoned to g^ve evidence, had not ventured to enter the witness-box. Of course, Mr. Grant's statement must be taken as that of an advocate who is seeking to establish a certain end. We must oonfess,however, that so far as the medical evidence went, it seemed to warrant his remarks. He said : " The evidence of the medical men on the point was clear, and required no corroboration from him. If that evidence had not been given, he should have been able to show by undoubted medical evidence that what Mr. Lyddon and Dr. Guy had   said was an absolute fact - ^that lymph could only be tested by its results. A perfediy healthy child might be vaccinated with pure lymph ; the vesicles might rise in the proper shape and ripen into the properform ; lymph might be taken from them and transmitted to another perfectly healthy child; the vesicles on that child might form and begin to ripen ; and then erysipelas might break out, the child be covered with eruptions^ the mother^ s life be made miserable for weeks^ and the child ultimately die. Only when the child was dead could it be said that the erysipelas, if it was produced by anything, was produced by the lymph.'* This points to the existence of a serious state of things. It will make the public think. The opinion, however, of the inspectors may be altogether different. They may report that the deaths and injuries were traceable not to vaccination, but to the mode in which it was adminis- tered. We do not desire to anticipate. We simply record. Mr. Grant's views must be taken for what they are worth, and weighed with those of the Inspectors when they are published. We trust both parties will coincide in exonerating Dr. Guy, who has already won the approbation of the Local Government Board. But if the Inspectors should agree that vaccination, not Dr. Guy, is at fault, serious considerations immediately arise. If the law was properly carried out, and the law is responsible for the deaths of these children, what then? The question suggests a problem which it will not be easy to answer.  [From Daylight^ a Norwich weekly journal,  Sept. 9.]  The remarkable inquiry into the deaths and cases of injury resulting from vaccination, which has just concluded at Norwich, will probably have more influence in deciding the future of compulsory vaccination than anything which has previously been sud or written. It is, perhaps, not generally known that this is the first public inquiry on the subject which has been instituted by the Local Government Board, and it is, therefore, worthy of special attention on the part of the public. It is in this view that we propose to review in a series of articles the evidence which has been given throughout this long investigation, extending over nine days. It will be within the recollection of our readers that the inquiry was instituted hj the Local Government Board, at the instigation of Mr.* Ralph Lee Bliss, as representing the Norwich Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League, and was opened at the Workhouse on Wednesday, August 23, by J. J. Henley, Esq., and Dr. Airey. Mr. Corrie Grant appeared on behalf of Mr. Bliss and the parents 01 the children, and with him was Mr. W. J. Collins, M.B., B.S., B.Sc., M.R.C.S., who rendered valuable assistance. Mr. J. C. Chittock appeared on behalf of Dr. Guy ; and on the first say Mr. C. T. Blofield appeared on behalf of the Guardians, although Mr. Nichols (a member of the Board) stated that the Guardians had given no instructions in the matter. On subsequent days Mr. Cross appeared for the Guardians.  The public and official inquiry which was instituted by the Local Government Board into the cir- cumstances connected with the lamentable fatality   .which attended the operation of the Compuldoiy Vaccination Acts in Norwich during the early part of the present summer has been brought to a close. Its end, in fact, was so unexpectedly abrupt as to closely resemble a collapse - if our medical friends will pardon us for saying so. The public had been led to belieye that profes- sional evidence would be adduced of the most convincing character and in inexhaustible quantity, which would clearly prove that, whatever was the exciting cause of the remarkably similar symptoms presented by the nine cases submitted for examination, it was not, and could not be vaccination. Mr. Cbittock, indeed, announced that he would call at least four medical gentlemen to refute the allegations made against the system of which Dr. Guy is the instrument ; but for some reason or other he seems to have thought better of it. In thus exercising that discretion which the proverb tells us is the better part of valour, Mr. Cbittock has shown wisdom in the highest degree. Mr. Corrie Grant, the talented advocate who represented Mr. Bliss and the Norwich League, had exhibited throughout the investigation so much legal acumen, coupled with so thorough a mastery of his subject, that the disciples of Galen might well dread being handed over to his tender mercies. In his hands their cross-examination would have closely resembled a moral dissection, as will be readily believed by all who read the detailed reports of the inquiry.  Ebysipblas fbom Vaccination. [From the Echo, Sept. 4.]  In view of the inouiry now proceeding respecting certain alleged deaths from post-vaccinal ery- sipelas, permit me to state that, after twenty years' experience as a public vaccinator, I am convinced that no amount of care nor attention to detail, nor cautious selection of lymph, can obviate the risk of vaccination being followed by erysipelatous inflammation. In fact, there is no certainty in the operation ; in some it runs a normal course, with apparently little or no constitutional disturbance, leaving the depressed, punctuated scars, which are regarded by some authorities as the only gua- rantee of successful vaccination ; whereas in others, especially the strong and vigorous, I have known phlegmonous erysipelas not unfrequently to follow properly-performea vaccination. It .was to this complication that Sir Culling Eardley fell a victim, although his family, who were vaccinated at the same time, with the same lymph, suffered no inconvenience. We unfortunately have no method of ascertaining the imparity of vaccine lymph, except by its results ; and these are notsurprismg when we remember it contains precisely the same microscopic particles as are found in fluids capable of producing the acutest blood-poisoning.  W. J. Collins, M.D.  1, Albert-terrace, Regent's Park, Sept. 2.  Vaccination and Ebysipblas.  [From the Timesy Sept. 9.]  Having been connected with the vaccination inquiry recentiy concluded at Norwich, and with- out prejudging the report which the Commisr sioners are about to make to the Local Government Board, permit me to draw attention to the   new light which has been thrown upon the question of vaccination and vaccinal erysipelas by recent scientific investigations. The whole tendency of modern medicine is to point to the presence of micro-organisms in septic fluids as the cause, or some relation to the cause, of their poisonous properties. Certain specific diseases have been associated with certain special germs, notably in the case of splenic fever. Certain other common infectious diseases, like erysipelas, have been ascribed to the presence of small spheroidal bodies, named micrococci, and which are found in crowds in the affected tissues and in exudation fluids during the progress of the disease, but which disappear during its decline. Now, it has long since been discovered through the researches of Ghauveau and others that the same or similar organisms exist in pure vaccine lymph, and that they exhibit the same chemical reactions as the above-mentioned micrococci. Is it, then, surprising that the erysipelatous blush, or areola, which normally accompanies true cowpox vesicles, should in some cases extend indefinitely, and even extensively, and occasionally lead to a fatal issue ? In vaccination we inoculate a septic animal fluid, whose mode of action is unknown to us, and whose effects we cannot measure, and no amount of care or caution can obviate results like those which have provoked pardonable indignation at Norwich.  W. J. Collins, M.B., B.S. (Lond.) Redhill, Sept. 7.  Deaths fbom "Ebysipblas aftbb  vaccination   tion."  [Collected from the Annual Returns of the Registrar-General for England.]  According to the law of certain Coroners, vaccination is not a recognised or legal cause of death ; and they refuse to certify its occurrence. Again, medical men, intent on " preserving vaccination from reproach,'' omit any reference to it in certifi- cates of death, assigning the fatal result to some secondary cause. Nevertheless some instances of death from *^ erysipelas after vaccination " do get recorded, as the following list of 890 in twenty-two years will prove : -   1859  1860  1861  1862  1863  5  3  2  3  11  Brought for^  1871  1872  1873  1874  1875  1876  1877  1878  1879  1880  rard 109  24  16  19  29  1864  13  37  1865  1866  10  10  21  29  1867  1868  1869  4  9  19  35  32  39  1870  20  109  390   [From the Eclw, September 13.]  One would imagine, from the entire absence of sympathy with the bereaved families on the part of the Medical Press when commenting on the recent disasters at Norwich, that vaccination, like yivisection, has a hardening and brutalising effect on its advocates.   Id the British Medical Journal^ the sworn and uncontradicted testimony of parents who spoke from painful experience as to the sufferings and death of their children is thus referred to : - '* Mothers were allowed, apparently without let or hindrance, to descant upon the various symptoms of their own and other people's babies/' Who so competent as the mothers to describe the various untoward symptoms following the vaccination of their children r Their maternal instincts were not at fault; they required no medical experts to assign to some occult cause what to them was as clear as daylight. Did not Edward Jenner himself declare that erysipelatous inflammation was an essential accompaniment of successful vaccination ? What to the medical mind, which only sees in the post-vaccinal deaths of four previously healthy children, and the agonising sufferings of others, was " a very puzzling and unaccountable series of mishaps,'* was to tnem a clear case of cause and effect. Not a medical man in Norwich ventured to come forward and show that the deaths of those children were due to any cause other than vaccination. Let it not be sup- posed that what has happened at Norwich is an event of rare occurrence. Alas ! there is scarcely a city, town, or village where victims are not being daily offered up at a shrine of a superstition as dark, debasing, and revolting as witchcraft, but whose fate is either unrecorded or obscured under the guise of pyeemia, erysipelas, etc.  Wm. Young. 114, Victoria Street, S.W., Sept, 9.   VACCINATION VERSUS SANITATION.  Dr Alfred Cabpentbb has done ^ood service to the caus^ of hygienic reform, at the Brighton H[ealth Congress last year, and recentljr in the London Press, by his advocacy of sanitation as a prophylactic against smallpox, and he advises anti-vaccinators to expend their energies in a similar direction, instead of attacking himself and other vaccinators. Had Dr. Carpenter made himself familiar with the work and literature of the opponents of compulsory vaccination, he would have discovered that, so far from having neglected the vital point, it has engaged no inconsiderable portion of their energies during the past 25 years ; and it is no exa^eration to affirm that the present rage for sanitation is, to a large extent, the outcome of their persevering efforts. Mr. H. D. Dudgeon, of Quom, one of the acutest thinkers and ablest writers against compulsory vaccination, has for 30 years advocated thorough cleanliness as the all-potent factor for the extinction of zymotic diseases, as against the practice of universal contamination and blood- poboning so zealously and, as I maintain, inconsistently - advocated by Dr. Alfred Carpenter and the vaccine propaganda, and for nearly as long a period has Mr. Thomas Baker, barristerat-law, enunciated in season and out of season the same rational and scientific doctrine, confirming it by Parliamentary returns, and showing that the erood effects of the vast expenditure of about 200 millions sterling on sanitation during the past 30 years has been neutralised by the   great increase of inoculable diseases induced by vaccination.  Mr. Henry Pitman, of Manchester, in 1869, pioneered the periodical press in its crusade on behalf of Sanitation versus Vaccination, by publbhing at his own cost and editing a sixteenpage weekly, en tided The Anti- Vaccinator, The second public anti-vaccination journal was entitled the Anii'Vaccinator and l*uhlic Health Journal^ and the editor - Mr. John Pickering, an able statistician - was, as its columns abundantly show, unfailing in his advocacy of these principles. smallpox, he untiringly maintained, was a filth- begotten disease, and wherever its ravages deci- mated the population, the conditions which favoured its development and diffusion were the same. It was Nature's protest against unclcanliness and neglect of sanitary laws. The present organ of the London Society is the Vaccination Inquibbb and Health Review, every number of which counsels with unswerving fidelity the same wholesome prescription. Mr. and Mrs. Hume Rothery have made the AntinCompidsory Vaccination R^rter an equally determined and consistent advocate of sanitation, and the same may be said of Dr. Nichols in the Herald of Health, The leading members of the International Anti- Vaccination League have taken up this line with equal assiduity, demonstrating the supreme utility of sanitation by statistical, medical, and historical proofs. While perseveringly attacking the pseudo-prophylactic of vaccination, they have urged the potency of purity to ward off smallpox and all other kindred maladies.  One of the subjects which engaged the attention of the debates at the International Congress at Cologne, in October last, was "Sanitation, not Vaccination, the true protection against  smallpox ," on which occasion the subject was treated from a scientific point of view, it being demon- strated by statistical evidence that sanitation and healthy habitations had already banished  smallpox  in crowded centres of population, when the immediate surrounding localities were hotbeds of infective disease. The President of the International Anti-Vaccination League, Dr. Hubert Boons, a distinguished member of the Belgian Academy of Medicine, and a student and writer on vaccination and variola during the past twenty- five years, has just published a work entitled ^^La Vaccienau point de vue Historiqtte et Scientifiqae^ in which this fundamental idea is fully dealt with. Nor can Dr. Alfred Carpenter point to a single one of the thirty or forty meetings held in or near London during the past twelve months, in which, while denouncing vaccination as a mischievous delusion, this constructive feature of our controversy, the efficiency of Sanitation (disputed or denied by Mr. Ernest Hart, Dr. C. Drysdale, and nearly all the vaccinators) has not been persistently advocated and stoutly upheld. The publications of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination deal largely with this important side of our controversy. It is the bridge wMch will, at no distant day, carry the bulk of the 26,000 English medical men into the Anti-Vaccination rt\nks. In a word, the Anti- ¦ Vaccinators believe what Dr. B. W. Richardson affirmed at the Brighton Health Congress, that '' pure blood and a healthy life will Danish all   diseases." Bat pure blood, under the operations of the Vaccination Acts, is a penal offence, and a healthy life an impossible ideal.  William Tebb.   FROM NEW SOUTH WALES.  192, Clarence Street, Gerringong.  Deab Sib, - Some time ago I told you how it was said the Chinese had brought smallpox to Sydney, and that there was much fear and excitement in Adelaide, Melbourne, and Sydney as I passed through those cities ten months ago. There were daily reports in the newspapers of the sick, of the couTalescent, of fresh attacks, and of the dead. All were raving against the Chinese, and they had a bad time of it generally.  At the same time, the politicians were engaged in passing a law to keep the Chinese out of the Colony by levying a tax of £10 on every immi- grant After the Bill was passed, the facts came out. The public had been purposely deceived. The ship that was said to have introduced  smallpox  from China had called at four Australian ports before Sydney, and had a clean bill of health in and out of each of them. The Chinese are a steady, sober, industrious, and thrifty people, who work for very low wages, and are consequently hated by the lower order of colonists for keeping wages aown. smallpox broke out on shore about the time this ship arrived. The passengers (some of them English) were not allowed to land until they had been vaccinated ; their luffgage was burned on the beach; even the clothes wej stood in were taken off and destroyed, fresh garments being provided. All this fuss was designed to create prejudice against the Chinese. There is a sworn affidavit in existence that, from the time the vessel left Hong Eong until its arrival at Sydney, there was no case of smallpox on board.  smallpox disappeared, as usual, in due course, but there was no need to seek for its origin outside Sydney. The revelations of the Health Officer concerning the state of the low lodging- houses, the back-yards and closets, would account for any pestilence. How people can live and endure such stenches is beyond my comprehension. The medical inen of South Australia, New South Wales, and Queensland are all crying out for compulsory vaccination laws, the assumption being that if the people are only vaccinated, they may live undisturoed in any foulness, and yet be secure from smallpox.  I do hope our English friends will help to save us from such pernicious and iniquitous legislation. Send us all the literature you can spare, and post the Vaccination Inquibbb to our newspapers and public men. It is light that is wanted to preserve us from the commission of folly, and it is for you to communicate this light. Faithfully yours, J. M. Nrwnham.  To Mr. Wm. Young, Westminster.  Hatred of Vaccination in Libicesteb. - A Leicester person, well informed as to the opinions of the poor of the town, and intimately acquainted with the Dissenting District Visitors, assares me that vaccination is htUed by the Leicester working- classes. - D.   P. A. TAYLOR, M.P. (From Daylight y Sept. 16.)  A FEW words about Peter Alfred Taylor, the Parliamentary leader of the An ti- Vaccination movement, may have more than ordinary interest for our readers at the present moment.  Mr. Taylor was born in London in 1810. When quite a stripling he was an active worker and lecturer in the Anti-Corn Law League. He spoke and wrote against Church Rates ; has been the intimate friend of such men as Mazzini and W. J. Fox, and it goes without saying that, wherever tyranny -and injustice were found, there Mr. Taylor found work to do. Poland, Hungary, and Italy bear him in affectionate remembrance for earnest work and the most generous financial help. And during the great American Slave War, be sure Mr. Taylor was on the side of the oppressed. His amiable and talented wife, too, was working by his side ; she being President of the Ladies' Anti- Slavery League. We are proud to claim her as a Norfolk woman.  Mr. Taylor comes of a good Liberal stock. His father was Chairman of the London Committee of the Anti-Corn Law League, the friend of Cobden and Bright, and a leader in all the great reform movements of his time. The mother of Mr. Taylor - a large-hearted, genial lady, who is still able to take a keen interest in all e£Ports for human advancement - is sister to the late Saml. Courtauld, who fought the cele- brated " Braintree Case," in which he gave the death-blow to Church rates. Mr. Taylor's grand- father was a staunch Liberal when Liberals were scarce - during the American War of Independence and the French Revolution. His great- grandfather, Henry Taylor, was Vicar of Ports- mouth, an intimate friend of the Whig Bishop Hoadley, and a reformer both in religion and politics. And so on, back to Puritan times, when we find his ancestor, Daniel Taylor, holding office under Cromwell, a controversialist in favour of religious liberty, and a good Republican.  No one cares less than Mr. Taylor whether a man has ancestors or not ; but, as a matter of fact, he traces his descent from the time of Richard 11.  The first attempt made by Mr. Taylor to get into Parliament was at Newcastie, in 1869. The workinff men there welcomed him with enthu* siasm ; out at that time they had no votes, and Mr. Taylor lost the election. So, too, at Lei- cester, in 1861, he again failed ; but in 1862 he was returned, and has sat for the ^' Metropolis of Dissent " ever since. At the last contest - 1880 - he was chosen by a majority of six thousand.  In the House of Commons, Mr. Taylor is known as the leader of forlorn hopes. He is not the man to ask whether a thing will bring him popularity, or what chances there are of its success. He only wants to know if it is bight, and then he would stand alone against the world. His opposition to the Contagious Diseases Acts, at a time when less stalwart reformers shrank from the subject as "unsavoury,'* is well known. His advocacy of entire freedom of speech and of a "free Sunday '' has excited much bitterness in certain quarters. The course he has taken on the question of criminal punishments has not been popular ; but   the work he has done has not been without fruit, for the '' Cat " has been abolished in the Arm j and Navy ; the Game Laws have been largely reformed ; unpaid magistrates are less tyrannical ; and even Royal personages have to think twice before making fresh demands on the taxpayer.  Let anyone look to Mr. Taylor's career in the House of Commons, and they will say it is the career of a man trite as steel - a man who, once he has put his hand to the plough, does not look back. The question to which he is now devoting his thought, his time, and his purse is that of vaccination, and this mainly in the interest of the poor and helpless. From all parts of the country come to him appeals from Rachels weeping for their children ; and if ** Compulsion " is to be got rid of, Peter Taylor is the man to accomplish the work.   MOVEMENT IN AMERICA.  OuB readers will be pleased to read the following summons to an Anti-Compulsory Vaccination Conference in New England : -  We, the undersigned, respectfully and earnestly invite all persons opposed to Compulsory Vaccination to a Conference to be held in the Common Council Chamber, City Hall, Hartford, Conn., on September 26, for the purpose of considering the best means to adopt to effect the total abolition of Compulsory Vaccination, and also for the purpose of organising a League for united action.  Prominent gentlemen have promised speeches or papers, and a good meeting is expected.  We appeal to all friends of physical purity, human liberty, and heaven-born personal rights, regardless of sectional differences, to come and help us to abolish the compulsory diseasing of the people.  Prof. J. Dobson, M.D., Fairfield, Ct.  Rufus E. Noyes,M.D., Lynn, Mass.  Prof. G. W. Winterburn, M.D., New York.  E. M. Ripley, M.D., Unionville, Ct.  Prof. R. A. Gunn, M.D., New York.  L. S. Ludington, M.D., New Britain, Ct.  E. M. Bingham, M.D., Springfield. John F. Wynne, Esq., Unionville, Ct.  F. Powel, M.D., Chester, Pa. Mrs. Otis Churchill, Boston, Mass. T. D. Stow, M.D., Fall River, Mass. C. W. Scott, M.D., Hartford, Ct. H. I. Fisk, M.D., Guilford, Ct.  S. Darling, Esq., Providence, R. I. H. B. Plunkett, M.D., Rocky Hill, Ct. F. Preston, M.D., Chester, Pa. N. D. HodgMss, M.D., Rocky Hill, Ct. L. H. Bingham, M.D., Springfield, Masst T. Brock way, M.D., New Hartford, Ct. J. P. Nolan, M.D., New York. And several others.   FROM ARTHUR OCONNOR, ESQ.,  M.P. for queen's county.  47, Rowan-road, Brook-green, London, W.,  June 17, 1882. Deab Sm, - I detest Compulsory Vaccination, and regard Vaccination itself as di^fusting folly ; and I will oppose it when I can. Faithfully yours,  Arthur O'Connob.   THE TRUTH ABOUT SWITZERLAND.  A Swiss correspondent of the Journal de Charleroi of Aug. 22 writes as follows : - *' You have published the result of the popular vote in Switzerland on compulsory vaccination; and it is probable that authentic details will be welcome to your readers. The battle was won by the advanced Liberals. It is the French cantons of Geneva, Vaud, and Neufchdtel, the homes of Catholics and reactionaries, that supplied the greatest proportion of votes in favour of the medical proposal. The majority against the law is prodigious - four to one. The most curious part of the matter is the bitter anger of the doctors. Professional interest was certainly deeply involved ; for it is estimated that compulsory vaccination would have added, on an average, more than £100 per annum to their individual incomes. Their efforts to secure this advantage may be easily imi^ned. Our newspapers are full of the subject. The Heveil de Neufchdtel, a medical partizan, says : - ' Never has a proposed Bill met with such a rebuke on the part of the people. Although its clauses had been considerably softened and toned down, it has fared no better for the process. One may judge of the depth of the misconceptien of popular feeling in the minds of state oHicials and state doctors, when we see them propound the most unpopular proposal that has been offered to this country. The defeat may do us good. Henceforth we may possibly think less of acquiring medical control over Government. We may flatter ourselves that compulsion is supported by professionals and experts, but the people are not doctors, and it is with the people we have to reckon - the people who have risen in revolt against our proposal.'  "The celebrated Professor Vogt, one of our most eminent sdentific men, has issued a pamphlet against the vaccination law. The consequences of the vote are already making themselves felt. The Swiss anti-vaccinators, strong in numbers, argue that the defeat of compulsory vaccination must now be followed by the withdrawal of administrative vaccination, and they demand the abolition of cowpox in the army, the prison, and the school. The vaccine fanatics are wildly crying out for the suppression of these Appeals to the People ; but the more moderate members of the medical profession cautiously dissuade from this useless exhibition of temper. There is only one remark to add, namely, the reign of compulsory vaccination is virtually over. After the lesson given by Switzerland, no Government, however arbitrary, will venture to introduce the unpopular practice; whilst those who have adopted it (at the instigation of medical men whose profit consists in the enactment) will discover how fragile is its tenure, and how widespread are the elements of revolt."  Several English newspapers have endeavoured to minimise the significance of the overthrow of the Universal Compulsory Vaccination Law in Switzerland, but in vain. Mr. Tebb has described the position in the Times and Echoy and if our adversaries can find satisfaction in what has occurred, their satisfaction is likely to be enlarged. In a letter in the Times of Sept. 12, Mr. Tebb observes: - '*It is not denied that compulsory   .   Ill   A Notable Fact. - It is a fact, which demands attention from those who are concerned in questions of public health, that while the mortality in early life has been very notably diminished, the mortality of persons in middle or advanced life has been steaoily rising for a long series of years. - Bbydgss P. Heniyikbb, ife- gMtrar-OeneroTs 42nd Annual Report, p. 23.   THOHOWQOOD'S CONTEMPT.  Fairlawn, Totteridge, June 22, 1882. Sib, - I return your stupid and idiotic post-card, relating to  vaccination , addressed to me in a discourteous way, which makes me think that you believe me one of the weak-minded snobs whose immoral life leads them to dread vaccination.  I would to God that all people held you and your Society in the dismal contempt that I do. T. N. Thobowoood, M. Inst. O.E., Superintending Engineer, Madras Harbour. To Mr. Wm. Young, Yiotoria Street.   vaccination at present exists under the cantonal laws of Switzerland ; bat these laws in many of the cantons are as inoperative as are our own Vaccination Acts in Leicester, Dewsbury, Bingley, Keighlev, and other places where smallpox is rarely hoard of {m Bleighley the last return issued by the Board of Guardians shows that only 12| per cent, of births are vaccinated). Vaccination had been falling into disuse in a number of the cantons for some years ; hence the demand by the pro-vaccinators for the Epedemien Oeutz^ containing vigorous clauses for the enforcement of vaccination. The cantonal vaccine laws are not subject to a plebiscite, else it is tolerably clear by the recent decisive repulse what their fate would be. The L<nule&-Oemei7ideotihe canton of Glarus abolished compulsory vaccination by a unanimous vote six years ago, and at the recent referendum 94 per cent of the voters in this canton reaffirmed their opposition by recording their suffrages against the Epedemien Oesetz. Other cantons have followed this example, and Dr. Theodore Briichner, of Bale, writes a few days ago that in his canton compulsory vaccination is now abolished by decree of the Kegierungsrath even for recruits.  " The Schweifferischer Volksarzt for September 2 says that re-vaccination is bitterly hated by the soldiers in Switzerland, and that the army voted as one naan against the vaccine compulsion ; and the medical journals now admit that the agitation is not only against compulsion, but against vaccination itself. '  In the details given of the voting in Switzerland last month, the total for the Republic was printed amonff the cantons in statistical order, when it should have been separated. The number of citizens entitled to vote was 642,552, of whom 321,788 exercised their right, thus : - 67,820 /or the Act, 253,068 offoinst the Act, or, to speak roughly, one to &ye - a prodigious majority, especially when we remember that the minority in favour of the Act was got together by superhuman exertions on the part of those to whom success would have resulted in lifelong emolument and power.   DR. HAYLE'S CASES.   In the JRoohdale Observer of Sept. 9, there are 849 cases of smallpox reported in the local epidemic. Dr. Hayle, in a letter to the Observer^ informs us that thirty-three cases came under his special notice, six un vaccinated and twenty-seven vaccinated. Of the unvaccinated, one was a case postponed on account of ill-health; another was out of health when she caught the disease. The third and fourth cases recovered. The fifth was two weeks old ; and the sixth was a child of three and a half months, which had been vaccinated, but was included among the unvaccinated by virtue of the hypothetical incubation theory, which permits a person who shows signs of  smallpox  within twelve or thirteen days after  vaccination to be registered as unvaccinated. Such cases are, in the opinion of the anti-vaccine party, a littl^ too common.  Let us now turn to the doctor's vaccinated cases. No. 1 had been vaccinated twice, and yet he died of smallpox. No. 5 had been vaccinated twice, caught smallpox and recovered. No. 0, aged eight years, was a similar case. Then follow cases of smallpox after " recent "  vaccination, of whom the first was a baby of four months. It had been vaccinated two months previously, with calf lymph. The next, aged twenty-five, was vaccinated when a baby, and again two months previous to the attack. Two more, aged thirteen and fourteen, respectivelv, had been vaccinated in childhood, and again shortiy before their attack of smallpox. Another did not take the re-vaccination, out took the disease. The most severe case of all was amongst the vaccinated. " This, at first sight (says the doctor), looks very bad for vaccination," and here the anti-vaccinators will be inclined to agree with him. Dr. Hayle further tells us that "lymph passes through fifty-two children in a year, many of them far from healthy.''  I observe some doctors are discrediting the early vaccinations as rude and careless, and assert that they are done much better now ; while others, on the contrary, propose to return to the purity and efficiency of the early system I H. D. D. '   smallpox at the cape.  Reads of newspapers will have observed in telegrams from the Cape frequent references to an outbreak of smallpox among the Lascars of Capetown, which is creating alarm throughout South Africa, and the usual clamour for  vaccination and re-vaccination. In the Times of Sept. 5 we read as follows : -  " Capetown, Aug. 15.- The first election of the Town Council under the new Act took place yesterday, and occasioned more than ordinary excitement, owing to the fact that smallpox still gains ground, and the people are looking anxiously to the members of the Council to take more vigo- rous measures to stamp it out. The Mayor, Mr. Fleming, was returned at the head of the poll, and the majority of the elected are members of what is termed the * dean party * - i.e., those who an- nounce their intention of working for progress and reform in drainage, water-supply, and the sanitary arrangements of the city gfenerally. Much satisfaction is felt at the result of the election."THE VAOCmATION INQUIRER   This has very mucli the appearance of a great anti-vaccine victory.  Mr. James White writes from Port Elizabeth , August 4: -  " You will see from the papers I have sent you that the people here have Vaccination on the brain.* Every colonial paper is advising the people to get vaccinated at once as the only means of preventing sraall-pox spreading. I have sent about a dozen letters in remonstrance to the press, but their publication has been declined. At least four deaths are ascribed to the present rage for vaccination, and yet smallpox is at least 300 miles off!"  Again, Mr. White observes, Aug. 26 : -  " The people here are completely scared. We have had such a long immunity from smallpox that all sanitary arrangements have fallen into neglect. The people are persuaded by the doctors and the newspapers that there is no salvation for them outside vaccination, and that if they do not get qnickly vaccinated, smallpox will come and sweep them away.  " Since I last wrote, vaccination has been the cause of three more deaths, about which the doctors try to preserve silence. What utter folly, I say, to kill people by vaccination to save them from possible smallpox !^ A lady asked one doctor why so many of the patients of another doctor died of his vaccination? * Hnsh ! ' said he. ' Do not say so, or you will get into trouble.* * But,' she persisted, ' is it not strange that he should be so unfortunate? * * Yes,* he replied, ' it is strange.* **  From Eimberley the death of Mr. E. Eric Smith, secretary to the Sanitary Committee, is reported from blood-poisoning following on vaccination. The Qrahamstown Journal^ August 18, commenting on the fact, observes :-  " Other cases of a similar nature have occurred, and this is greatly to be deplored at a time when smallpox has taken a firm footing in the country, and from the deaths which are occnrring in Cape- town and other places, it is manifestly of a very virulent typo. It is much to be regretted that anything should occur to bring discredit upon the only possible weapon we have for successfully combating this dread disease. The matter should have the fullest and most exhaustive inquiry. It is only due to the Mends of the deceased gentleman, and to the medical practitioner who performed the operation, that the cause of death should be thoroughly sifted. and it is also necessary for the safety of the country that everything should be known concerning the case; people may else become vaguely alarmed, and ready to think that the risk of vaccination is too great to run, and that they had better stand their chance of getting  smallpox  than incur the danger of becoming blood-poi- soned by impure virus.**  One fact comes out clearly in the Colonial papers, namely, the dis^aoef ul condition of the towns as concerns sanitary arrangements, and overcrowding in the poorer quarters. It can only be due to the warm climate in permitting and favouring ventilation that smallpox and similar fevers are not endemic.  Panic in Natal.  Natal is far away from the Cape, but when a smallpox scare is practicable, there are never   wanting medical men to turn it to account. Consequently panic has spread to Natal, and in the Natal mercury^ July 27, we read : -  "Vaccination is to be made compulsory, and it is to be made so under the influence of immediate fright. The Bill now before the House comes properly under the action of panic-stricken legislation, and it is therefore not surprising that its provisions are peculiarly sweeping and severe. Under them, every person in the colony - infant, child, or adult, irrespective of age, or colour, or class, is to be vaccinated, under pain of specified penalties. Such a measure would of course only be proposed, and would only have any chance of adoption, at a moment when smallpox was advancing to the confines of the colony. ' The Gaul is at our gates,' and authority acts accordingly. We know, of course, that a difference of opinion exists at home. Many people of high intelligence in England, headed by Mr. P. A. Taylor, regard compulsory vaccination as little less than a crime. Only by last mail we received papers containing letters strongly denouncing the process as full of physical peril, and citing instances to prove that it is so. 'Diis, how- ever, is the sentimental view. The people who desire to send back Getewayo desire to prevent compulsory vaccination. The two cases are very similar; motives in each case being quite ana- logous.**  In Natal, however, the good cause of anti- vaccination has an able and influential representative in the person of Archdeacon CoUey, and in the TimtB of NattU, August 3, we find the following announcement : -  "Natal Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League.  " In view of the dangerous practice of  vaccination being made compulsory in Natal, to be State- endorsed and established - the supposed antidote being worse than the disease it is erroneously thought to remedy - Archdeacon Colley will be glad .to hear from all who will unite with him in forming a League to defeat the operation of this hasty and ill-considered piece of legislation."  Further, the Archdeacon preached and printed a sermon against vaccination and its compulsory infliction, an edition of which, we are glad to say, has been produced for circulation in this country.   DR. KLEIN ON VACCIN CHARBONNEUX.  From the subjoined report, it vnll be seen that Dr. Klein has arrived at conclusions - based upon comparatively few experiments, it b true- adverse to the general adoption in this country of Pasteur's proposal to inoculate cattle with anthrax as a prophylactic measure against that disastrous disease. Dr. Klein's report has been communicated to the Veterinary Department of the Privy Council by the Local Government Board, and is published in the Veterinarian for September as follows : -  '* Vaccin charbonnenx is to be obtained, and is announced to be obtainable (in the Farmer) from M. Bontroux, agent of M. Pasteur in Paris (appli- cants to M. Pasteur are referred to M. Bontroux), and, as I happen to know, it is brought over and sold and used in considerable quantities. The ' vaccin * is sold in tubes (each costaining enough lymph for the inoculation of 100 sheep or 50 cattle) as 'premier vaccin charbonnenx' and as   .* denxidme vacoin oharbouneux.' The * premier vaccin/ aooording to the printed directions accompanying each lot, is inoculated first ; after a lapse of twelve to fifteen days the ' deaxidme vaccin ' is used in the same manner. The animals thus twice inoculated are supposed to be immune against fatal anthrax. I have obtained through two independent sources two lots of this vaccin charbonneux (premier and denxidme), and have tested them by experiments. The results of these experiments enable me to say - (a) animals inoculated with this 'vaccin' (premier and deuxi^me) are not made immune against fatal anthrax ; and (h) both the first and second vaccin may produce fatal anthrax. The following facts prove these propositions : -  ** Eseperiments with Lot A. - ^Inoculated with  * premier vaccin/ two sheep, two guinea-pigs, and two mice ; no change in any animal. Inoculated with * deuxi^me vaccin,' the two above sheep and the two above guinea-pigs. One of these sheep showed rise of temperature and falling-off in food for the first two days after this second inoculation, but was all right again after three days. The two guinea-pigs were dead of typical anthrax within forty-eight hours. The above mice were inoculated with the blood of one of these guinea-pigs. Both mice were dead of typical anthrax within forty-eight hours. The two sheep having been inoculated with the premier and deuxi^me vaccin ought to have been immune against fatal anthrax. Now see what happened : according to M. Pasteur, the Bacillus anthracis of blood of an animal dead of anthrax, when cultivated at 42 deg. - 43 deg. C. for twelve days, loses all virulence, and becomes thereby converted into 'vaccin.' I had grown the B<icilltb8 anthracis of blood of a guinea-pig dead of anthrax at a temperature of 42 deg. - 43 deg. C. for twenty-one days, and with this culture I inoculated the above two sheep. The result was that both animals were dead of typical anthrax within forty-eight hours.  ** Experiments with Lot B, - Inoculated with  * premier vaccin ' four guinea-pigs and six mice. Within forty-eight hours three of the guinea-pigs and three of the mice were dead of typical anthrax. My method of using the fluids for inoculation absolutely precludes any accidental contamination, and hence these must be accepted as perfectly reliable. This country is comparatively free from anthrax, and therefore the introduction and nse of this so-called * vaccin charbonneux ' seems to me most dangerous, and capable of producing incalculable mischief."   Lord Clifton has addressed a letter '^ To her Majesty's Ministers," urging the wisdom of putting a more liberal interpretation on the words, *' reasonable excuse" in prosecutions for non-vaccination. So far as we observe, the words are systematically treated as meaningless by magis- trates, and the defendant who refers to them is occasionally fined a few shillings extra for his impudence. Copies of Lord Clifton's letter may be had of Mr. Young, and we would strongly advise our friends to post it to justices of the peace, who may be thereby induced to interpret the law in a kindlier sense, and to recognise that a parent who has no faith in vaccination as a defence against smallpox, or who dreads the consequences of its infliction, or who has bad a former child injured or killed by the rite, has '^ reasonable excuse " for declining its application.   A GROUP OF REBELS.  Mb. Charles Wicehah, of 48, Pratt Street, Camden Town, was summoned before Mr. Bar- stow, at Clerkenwell, on Sept. 14, by the St. Pancras Guardians, for refusing to have his son vaccinated. Mr. Wickfaam remarked that it was his conscientious conviction that vaccination did not prevent smallpox, and often did serious mischief, and asked the magistrate, on that ground, to inflict a moderate penalty. Mr. Barstow replied that whilst he had no doubt of his sincerity, it was his business to give effect to the Act. Mr. Wickham thereon observed that some magistrates in cases like his inflicted a fine of sixpence or a shilling. '' Then,'' said Mr. Barstow, " I think they are very wrong ; for they make a farce of the Act. You are fined 20s. and 2s. costs." The appeal of conscience to Mr. Barstow is nearly always in vain. The limit of the fine at 20s, tries hid patience. It would please him better if it were £5, or a month.  In the Daily Telegraph of September 19 we read : - ^ A tradesman of Hackney was summoned before Mr. Bushby at Worship Street for not having his child vaccinated, an^ in his defence said he had not only no faith in the virtue of the rite, but considered it most injurious. Mr. Bushby in reply, said : That though manj persons held similar views, statistics and medical opinion were against them. No greater proof of the value of proper vaccination was needed than the example afforded by India, where smallpox  had been nearly stamped out. The defendant, saying that he should not comply with any order to vaccinate the child, Mr. Bushby imposed a fine of 203. for not producing the child, and in making an order for the vaccination, warned defendant that he would be summoned from time to time and fined on each occasion." Mr. Bushby exceeded his power in threatening re])eated prosecution and fines. Prosecution lies within the discretion of the Hackney guardians. His assertion that vaccination has nearly stamped out smallpox in India is either an evolution from his own fancy or an imposition on his credulity.  At Bedford, on Sept. 18, thirteen parents were each fined 203. and costs for failing to have their children vaccinated. Several of them stoutly refused to pay, and expressed their intention of going to gaol first, while the recent outbreak at Norwich was cited as an example of the non-utility of vaccination, and also of its dangerous effects. A number of parents who appeared before the magistrates for the first time for disregarding vaccination orders were fined Is. and costs.  ** At the Leicester Borough Police Court, on Sept. 1," we read in the I'imes, ''nineteen persons were summoned for refusing to have their children vaccinated. In almost every case conscientious objections to the operation were urged, while in several instances the reasons assigned were that children of the defendants had already suffered death and injury through vaccination. There are several thousand unvaccinated children in the town, and their number is increasing at a very rapid rate, although there are more prosecutions under these Acts in Leicester alone than in all the other large towns.   of the kingdom put together. Notwithstanding this state of things, the town is perfectly free from smallpox . Eighteen of the defend ants were fined IQs. each or seven days' imprisonment, and the other case was adjourned."  At Gloucester, on Sept. 1, Mr. Charles Chal- lenger, manager to the Gloucester Tramways Company, was summoned for not allowing his child to be vaccinated. He said that as the child was not strong, and as he had lost his first two children shortly after their vaccination, he did not like this child to be operated upon. Fined Is., without costs.  At Manchester, on August 18, Mr. Joseph Chadderton, insurance agent, was summoned oy the Barton-on-Irwell Guardians for neglecting to have his child vaccinated, and the magistrates made an order for the performance of the rite within a month. Mr. Chadderton said he did not believe in vaccination, and that his objections to the practice were based on medical grounds. He said, further, that on thirteen previous occa- sions within a period of three years he had changed his residence to avoid prosecution for not vaccinating his children, and he supposed he should have to do it again.  At Penrith on Sept. 12, Mr. Thomas Lester (a  Srincipal in the well-known firm of Wilson, espers, & Co.), was summoned on account of his child, Christine Alsop, five years old. In response to the Bench, Mr. Lester gave his reasons' for refusing to vaccinate his child. He said that in 1870, he had his sixth child vaccinated by the Public Vaccinator, and until that time he was as healthy a child as any parent could wish to see. On the fourth day after vaccination he was taken seriously ill, and gradually became worse and worse. After an illness extending over many months, the doctor advised them to take the child to the seaside. They accordingly took him to Grnn^e, where the medical man there said he was suffenng solely from the effects of vaccination, and would not probably outgrow it for some years. Under these circumstances, he did not now feel satisfied to have a child vaccinated under any circumstances whatever. Facts were stubborn things, and Mr. Lester proceeded to cite some well-known statistical evidence, adding that numberless other facts could be brought forward, and if people would read and open their eyes and ears, they would soon see the fallacy of vaccination. At the present time there was a case in Penrith, which he could name, proving the injurious effects of vaccination ; and another recently, in which the death of the child resulted from it; and a medical man admitted to his wife that in three cases which she had mentioned, the children had died from the effects of the operation. The Bench said they were constrained to administer the law, and should make an order for the vaccination of the child; which, replied Mr. Lester, ^'I will resist by all legal means in my power .^  At the same time, Mr. Philip Sowerby, coal merchant, Penrith, was summoned fur not having his child, Ruth, vaccinated. Mr. Sowerby said, in his defence, that during the last five years he had had occasion to be a good deal in people's houses, and if the magistrates had been the same rounds, and seen children before and after vaccination as he had, they would be well convinced   that vaccination had ruined the health of dozens of children. He had known many children perfectly healthy before vaccination, who ^ere nothing like the same children after, and who apparently would never be good for anything again, besides some cases where the children had died as the result. The Bench said they could do nothing but make the same order as in the case of Mr. Lester.   Ghangb of Opinion. - When I commenced writing on  vaccination , and for some time after, almost the whole of the vaccine fraternity proclaimed the yirtual impossibility of the vaccine inoculation transmitting any other disease. The reverse is now nearly true. (See Dr. Corrigan's Evidence in 1871 Blue Book.) They were wise in their generation. Probably they foresaw that if only one case of syphilis or scrofula was proved to be trans- mitted, they might be confronted with the unavoidable inference that, as Nature's laws work systematically, what happens once must happen again, and repeatedly ; and that disease in the vaccinifer must always be transferable to the vaccinated. - H. D. D.  The Newest Discovery in Bacilli. - The Detroit Lancet says that a Wisconsin doctor, in careful observation of his last thirty-six cases of fractures of the legs of railway employes, found in the trousers of each case a parasite which he claims produces the broken legs. His proof is that he has placed some of the trousers containing the parasite upon the legs of some oats, and subsequently he found the cats in rat-traps, with their legs broken. The same inoculation of his wife's cows, which pasture in a field through which a railroad runs, resulted in finding many of them with legs broken. The doctor suggests that by cultivating this parasite in cattle, and then inoculating men with it, we shall be enabled to rid the world of the parasites which produce broken legs. Should it prove that the inoculation of trousers with such parasites will protect against broken legs, the name of Bull will rank with Jenner, Pasteur, and Koch. - Medical Press and CirculaVf Sept. 6, 1882.  Rochdale smallpox. - Rochdale has not been free from smallpox since March, 1881. Dr. Thorne has issued his report, wherein he says that information concerning 847 cases in 663 houses has been communicated to the Sanitary Authority between April, 1881, and May, 1882, and that 101 smallpox deaths have been registered during that time. The inquiry, like many others of its kind, was far from complete, and much dissatisfaction is expressed as to the manner in which it has been conducted. One hundred and one deaths in one of the best vaccinated towns in England, is surely proof that vaccination is no protection against the disease. When the epidemic first broke out, it was said that medical men would record every case they had under treatment, whether vaccinated or unvaccinated, with the result ; but, so far, nothing has appeared, although members of the Anti- Vaccination Society have applied to the Officer of Health for the promised information. Of 23 cases which came under my treatment, 16 had been vaccinated. All the 23 recovered, with one exception, thus supporting mj opinion, that smallpox attacks indiscriminately the vaccinated and unvaccinated, and that the disease is the same in the one as in the other. - Dr. Qeosge Brown, in The Herhalittf for September.   .smallPOX IN THE UNITED STATES  NAVY.  In the Sanitary and Medical Reports for 1873-4, published by the Navy Department, there is an article by Dr. Pilcher, on the subject of variola in the United States Navy. Dr. Richer believes in vaccination. His ar^ifument is this: - During the twenty-six years, 1845-70, there were intro- duced into receiving or sea-going vessels 80 cases of smallnox without any extension of the disease, and 2o cases where the contagion was limited to one other party, which shows the benefit of primary vaccination. In an unspecified number of cases the disease did spread, attacking, in one instance, more than one-fifth of the entire crew, which shows the necessity for re vaccination.  I transcribe as briefly as possible some of the reports made by the ship surgeons : -  " In the early part of 1857, variola broke out in the U.S. sloop of war. Levant, then in the China Sea. There was a total of 28 cases, of which an unusually large number were confluent, in consequence of the cachectic condition of those attacked. Indeed, those only whose constitutional vigour had been impaired were afiFected, the disease manifesting no tendency to indiscriminate spreading among the healthy members of the crew."  " In 1850, in the U.S. fr\gate Independence, with a ship's company of 560 persons, there were 116 cases of smallpox, seven fatal. Fleet-surgeon Whelan writes : - * The crew of this ship almost universally presented what are regarded as genuine vaccine marks. The protection, however, proved to be quite imperfect.'  " Upon the U.S. steamship Jameetovmy serving in Japanese waters, there occurred in 1864, among a ship's company of 212 persons, 31 cases of  smallpox , with four deaths. The entire crew had been vaccinated after leaving the United States."  " In 1870, 61 cases occurred on board the U.S. steamship Franklin. The disease first appeared on a sailor with * an excellent vaccine scar.' ' The officers and crew were immediately vaccinated with fresh vaccine matter obtained at Lisbon, this vaccination being the third one during the cruise.' Nineteen days later the second case occurred. ' The disease has been epidemic in many places in Europe during the past season, but I hoped our vaccinations would prevent trouble with it on board ship.' "  " In a cruise of the North Carolina up the Mediterranean, she shipped at Norfolk a crew of 900 men, most of whom had been vaccinated, or had had the smallpox, but were nevertheless twice vaccinated prior to the ship sailing, a third time at Gibraltar, and a fourth time at Port Mahon. Dr. Hendersen, who reports these facts, states that notwithstanding this ultra vaccination under such various circumstances of virus, climate, &c., 157 of the crew had varioloid."  The claim set up is that the re-vaccinations were very rarely successful, owing to inferior virus; but in none of the above cases did the surgeon in charge suggest this explanation. Certainly the surgeon who wrote, ** I hoped our vaccinations would prevent trouble,'' did not refer to matter exceptionally inert.  Eugene Bbttbs.  Washington, U.S., Aug. 1, 1882.   A USE FOR FAT WOMEN.  In Miss Cobbe's volume of essays, entitled '' The Peak in Darien,"* there is one on ''Sacrificial Medicine," wherein we read : -  A large heterogeneous class of prescriptions obviously owe their origin to the principle of Sacrificial Medicine, of which the simple rule has been to prevent the miserable patient from adopting any mode of relief for his sufferings which Nature might point out, and adding to them fresh pain by any ingenious device which may occur to his physician. Of this kind was the treatment of fever in vogue till quite recently, when the patient was carefully shut up in a close room, with well-curtained bed and warm bedclothes, and was prohibited from relieving his thirst with any cold drink. . . .  Another appalling device was that of the renowned EDglish physician, John of Gaddesden, who introduced the practice of treating smallpox by wrapping up the patient in scarlet, hanging his room with scarlet, and in fact compelling him to rest his feverish eyes only on that flaring hue. John tried this notable device, according to his own showing, on one of the sons of King Edward I., and complacentlv adds to his report, ^ et est bona cura. In those days, however, doors and windows were not made air-tight, and up the capacious chimneys a considerable portion of fresh air must always have rushed. It was reserved for a later generation to perfect the ingenious system for aggravating and intensifying fever by pasting down the modem window, closing the registers, and (as a climax) engaging nurses to lie beside the sufferer to keep up the heat ! The writer heard some years ago from the lips of a Member of Parliament, now deceased, the recital of his own treatment as a boy, in or near London, under a severe attack of smallpox. His life being specially valuable as that of an only son, his affectionate parents, by the advice of a distinguished physician, obtained the services of two fat women who were established permanently in bed on each side of the child during the whole course of the disease! What stipend was offered to tempt these poor obese females to perform this awful service, has escaped from the record.  Beading over all these marvellous prescriptions, it is a refreshing exercise to picture the fashionable ''leech/' the Gull or Jenner of the period. Physician in Ordinary to the King or Queen, suave and solemn, filled to the brim with all the conscious dignity of science, standing beside the sick-bed of some mighty prince or peer, and giving to the awe-stricken attendants his high comman£ to hang the room with scarlet cloth, or to brinff to the patient one of the horrid messes prepared with such infinite pedns under his direction, m his own laboratory. We can almost hear him condescendinc^ly explaining to the chief persons present wl&at occult relationship exists between the smallpox and the scarlet cloth, or how the Arcanum of Toads comes to be specially valuable, having been composed of the fattest old toads,  * " The Peak in Dwien : With Some Inquiries Touching Concerns of the Soul and the Body." By Frances Power Oobhe. (London i TiniHams ft Norgate, 1888.) Price 7s. 6d..   selected precisely at the right Beason-videltcet Mid&ummer.  Of course, in eocli successiTe (generation there was nothing for the unlearned laity to do but to bow submissively to the dicta of the exponent of Science as it existed at the time. People may always laugh at what is past and gone ; but to suspect that living men may be mistaken, or that new systems of medicine, philosophy, or theology, may be destined, like the old, to ''have their day and cease to be,'' is audacity to which no one should advance. We dare not, therefore, suggest that to our grandsons, half our modem nostrums (of which the fashion comes in freshly one season and falls into disrepute a few years after) may possibly appear scarcely a degree less ridiculous than the Arcanum of Toads, or the Mummiall Quintessence. It was not much worse, after all, to make a patient drink a dead man*s blood than to rob him of his own, in the Sangrado style to which (in the memory of us all) the world owes the loss of Cavour. It would have been a mercy to a poor Florentine lady, lately deceased, had her physicans counselled her merely to eat earthworms pickled in vinegar, or green lizards boiled alive in oil, as recommended by Dr. "Salmon, instead of bleeding her from the arm nineteen times in the fortnight following her confinement and (as may be readily understood) preceding her untimely death.  Sacrificial medicine, however, in its simpler and more easily recognisable forms, is undoubtedly on the wane, though a good deal of its spirit may still be traced in our behaviour to the sick. To Homoeopathy (as to many another kind of heresy) we probably owe somewhat of the mitigation of orthodoxy ; and children, noticing the busts of Hahnemann in the shop windows, may be properly taught to bless that great Deliverer who banisned from the nursery tnose huge and hateful mugs of misery - black founts of so many infantine tears - mugs of sobs, and sighs, and gasps, and struggles unutterable, from one of which Madame Koland drew the first inspiration of that martyr spirit which led her onward to the guillotine, when she suffered herself to be whipped six times running, sooner than swallow the aoominable contents.   Sewer Gas. - I find the medical joamals admit that drain and sewer-traps allow some gas to escape. This I have known for many years. There is no communication from the interior of my house with any cesspool or sewer. My draintraps are outside the kitchen. Absolute freedom from these dangerous smells is to be thus obtained, unless you live near a marsh, or too near a careless neighbour. - H.  NoTiFiCATON OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES 18 in Operation in several large towns, and in one large mid- land borough it has enabled the corporation to arrest a very serious epidemic of smallpox.- Daily News, Sept. 7. [Whether "a very serious epidemic of smallpox" was thus arrested in Leicester is questionable. The claim is like that of keeping off a very serious shower of rain - there being no measure for *Hhe seriousness" outside the conjuror'B fancy. However, it is a note of reviving sanity to have it allowed that aught save vaccination can influence  smallpox . - Ed.]   Sawdust foe Tea. - At Eastbourne, on Sept. 5, there was a public sale of goods, seized under distress warrants for the recovery of fines under the Vaccination Acts. A large number of people assembled. The bills advertising the sale stated that a couch, harmonium, village cart, and half a chest of very choice tea would be sold; and all were sold except the tea. Two policemen, it ap- pears, went to the shop of Mr. Philip Luck, tea merchant, to distrain in his absence, and carried off what was supposed to be a chest of very chofco tea. The police, however, on opening the chest at the sale to show a sample of the choice tea, found the chest full of very choice sawdust. The effect of this discovery on the police and the auctioneer can be imagined.  A Shot at Mb. W. Gibson Waed. - ^In an article in the World of Aug. 16, jeering at the editorship of the TimeSt it is said : - " The readers of Mr. Chenery's entertaining sheet may rely, with confi- dence, on learning that celery is the food of the gods, lentils the universal nutrient,and another letter from the monomaniac who informs us that Dr. Jenner ' was a fool,' and that the most famous physician of his own, or, perhaps, of any age, was at best 'not a regular doctor,' but only a quack, * who had bought his diploma.' " - Mr. Gibson Ward is well able to answer for himself, but as matter of fact Jenner did purchase his diploma from St. Andrews, and, at the height of his reputation, the Royal College of Physicians declined to receive him into membership without examination, which it was well known he could not pass.  From Kimes we have received Mr. Tebb*s piquant manifesto, translated by M. Eugene De Masquard, *' La Vaccination on la Sant6, la Question du Jour : an example of the opposition which the English are raising to the doctrine of Jenner, which certain French quacks are trying, afresh, to apply to all diseases." We observe that many of the countrymen of M. Pasteur, in proximity to his experiments, regard them very differently from the enthusiasts to whom they are only known by report.   Dr. Brereton, of Sydney, writes, Aug. 8 : - "The question of vaccination has subsided for th^ present, but the conflict in which we were victorious will lead to good issues. I do not think a compulsory vaccination law will ever be passed in this colony."   The Monthly Conferences, of the London Society will be resumed at 114, Victoria Street, Westminster, on Monday evening, Oct. 23, at 7.30 o'clock, when discussion will be introduced with some remarks on the Norwich Inquiry. For the assistance of those who have not visited the Offices in Victoria Street, we mtij B&j that it is close to the St. James's Park Station on the District Railway, on the south side of Victoria Street, about midway be- tween Westminster Abbe^ and Victoria Station. All omnibuses plying to Victoria Station pass the door. The Conferences will be continued on the third Monday of each month at 7.30 o'clock, and the Committee hope to provide much instructive and varied entertainment in the course of the season.   Ke wtio knows only his own sicie of the case, knows little of that.- J. dmBT MiLt" Prejudice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.- Aubbbt Ds Ysbs.  Clje Uaxxmatitm Inrptirer  firicL df£e.att}L QteiiLeui.   Vol. IV., No. 44.]   NOVEMBER, 1882.   [PfilCB Id.   NOTES of THE MONTH.   Wb shall have frequent occasion to refer to the Toluminous Report of the Royal Commissioners appointed to inquire into the condition and effi- ciency of the hospitals provided in London for the treatment of smallpox, and into the means of preventing the spread of infection. There is much that is amanng in the Report, and much that may startle even the indifferent as to the projects of the restless and aggressive medical faction, whose cry is " Compulsion, and ever more compulsion t '^ But V7hat is to us most v^onderful is the prime recommendation of the Commissioners, namely, that hospital accommodation be provided for 2,700 Londoners smitten with smaU-poz. That is to say, the Commissioners distinctly contem- plate the occurrence of epidemics in which for 2,700 patients it will be necessary to provide beds. Was ever a surrender of the efficacy of vaccination more complete? The Commission was constituted of red-hot vaccinists, not one of whom would hedtate to stand up and swear for vaccination through thick and thin. The Commissioners have a population to deal with practically vaccinated to the level of the birth-rate ; the entire public service is re-vaccinated, with a multi- tude of the young and the fearful, and all prisoners; and yet for a population so protected it is expedient to have beds in readiness for 2,700 victims ! With vaccination preached in every newspaper, advertised at every church door, and offered gratis; with gangs of public vaccinators stimulated with fees and extra awards ; vnth vaccination officers to hunt up the careless and recalci- trant like sleuth-hounds; with the terrors of the police-court and fines and imprisonment; yet it is all in vain I London is open as ever to an invasion of smallpox, and mercy and prudence demand the provision of 2,700 beds t Imagine Jenner and his friends, who proclaimed smallpox exterminated in the chief capitals of Europe, and dissipated like chaff in the vast empires of and and America, foreseeing such an issue I May we not say with Carlyle that the faith of these Commissionen in vaccination is from the teeth out  wards? It is hypocrisy, grown so inveterate and shameless as to have lost even' the decency of  consistency.  It is surprising to hear a profesdon of futh in vaccination like that delivered by Sir Rutherford Alcock, as president of the Health Department of the Social Science Congress at Nottingham. He avowed his belief that, "despite the combined prejudice and ignorance of the anti-vaccinists, the time veill come when smallpox will no longer exist in our midst as an epidemic, destroying its thousands a year'' - a deliverance to be effected by the systematic vaccination of children, and the re-vaccination of adults. The obvious answer to such an expectation is the occurrence of  smallpox  in vaccinated infants, and the frequent induction of the disease in the re-vaccinated, v^ith the entire virtue of the magic rite vrithin their systems. We too believe in the extinction of smallpox by thorough sanitation ; but, short of such sanitation. Dr. Ballard, of the Local Government Board, more accurately represents the conviction of the majority of medical men when he observes : -  '* Experience has not verified Jenner's predic* tion. smallpox has not been eradicated. Let me add that scientific observation and reasoning give no countenance to the belief that it ever wiO be eradicated from civilised communities."   Sib Ruthbbfosd Alcock*8 views of epi- demics are those of the pre-scientific age. He described them as coming upon us "like the sudden invasion of an armed force, devastating and destroying wherever they find weak powers of resistance, or an ill-conditioned population." Now acquaintance with the statistics of zymotic disease in this and other European countries proves that epidemics are not extraordinary causes of death, nor in anywise comparable with foreign invasions, but that they merely displace certain ordinary causes of death, and are remarkable by their temporary and prevalent uniformity, rather than by their fatality. TaJdngi for example, Sir Rutherford's spedal bogey,.   smallpox : even a severe London epidemic provides no more work than usual for the undertakers. Those who die of smallpox would, in the absence of smallpox, succumb to some other variety of disease. We are not palliating the existence of smoll-pox. We account it as discreditable and as preventible as does Sir Rutherford himself, but we maintain that there is no use in fighting against smallpox as an independent entity. Remove the common causes of zymotic disease, we say, and we shall prevail against smallpox, but not otherwise. That Sir Rutherford Alcock should exhibit himself as a public instructor on epidemiology, whilst ignorant of the very elements of the subject, illustrates afresh how a man with a certain repute is thought to be good for anything at gatherings where popularity is of more account than sound information.   Cabeless as to consistency among his miscellaneous convictions. Sir Rutherford Alcock cited Mr. Edwin Chad wick with approval, as saying, ''the seats of epidemic disease are also the seats of turbulence and crime ; " and in the same breath went on of himself to affirm that <' epidemics are no respecters of persons, attacking alike the rich and the poor, regardless of age or sex." Sir Rutherford concurs with Mr. Chad wick that epidemics have their seat among the lower orders, but incontinently avers that they attack alike the rich and the poor, the young and the old I It is needless to say that epidemics do not attack alike the rich and the poor, the young and the old. The poor are ever the chief sufferers, the quarters where "the respectable" reside frequently enjoying complete exemption ; and in outbreaks of smallpox and scarlet fever, it is the young, and chiefly the young of the poor, who constitute the majority on the roll of mortality. Of the same order of inexact observation was Sir Rutherford's association of the Peculiar People, with anti - vaccinists in resistance to sanitation. For the Peculiar People, we may say they are no more averse from cleanliness and drainage than Sir Rutherford himself. What they seem to believe is, that in cases of illness, prayer is more trustworthy than " doctors' stufiF.*' As for anti-vaccinists, there is no class of the community so convinced of the importance of sanitary improvement, or so urgent for its advancement. Indeed, their opposition to vaccination springs out of their loyalty to the laws of health, persuaded as they are, on the clearest evidence, that the impure lite, whilst it does nothing to prevent  smallpox , inflicts widespread injury ; and that like umilar vain supentitions, it withdraws   attention from the true causes of mischief. Who can doubt that if the pest of vaccination were cleared out of the way, an immense amount of capital and energy, now worse than wasted, would be set free for true and scientific sanitary work.   Mb. Hbrbebt Spenceb touched a weak point in American development when he said, *^ While the American people retain the form of freedom, there has been a considerable loss of the sub- stance. The sovereign people are fast becoming a puppet, which moves and speaks as the wire-pullers determine. The root of the evil is the American easy-going readiness to permit small trespasses because it would be troublesome, or profitless, or unpopular to oppose them, which leads to the habit of acquiescence in wrong and the decay of free institutions." In the matter of vaccination, we are continually struck with the facility with which entire communities submit to the lancet. East, West, North, and South. A panic is got up about smallpox, and in the name of the authorities a decree goes forth for general vaccination. Forthwith there is house to house visitation, and a harvest of fees, or a draft from the public funds, is passed into the vaccinators* pockets. Question or resistance there is apparently none. The people submit like sheep to the shearer. It is idle to say they b^slieve in vaccination : the majority know little about it ; and still less of the pox with which they are inoculated. Their compliance is an act of faith, and is of a piece with the habit of indolent subservience to assumed authority stigmatised by Mr. Spencer. Certainly nothing of the same kind would be practicable in England, unless on helpless infancy, or in prison, or as a condition to public place and pay.   Mb. p. a. Siljestbom's remarks on another page are such as naturally occur to one who has mastered the vaccination question, and feels the irksomeness of iteration in the contest with prejudice, ignorance, and dulness; but there is no escape from the iteration. It is the condition of the conversion of the multitude. The laws of commerce were scientifically determined far in advance of the free trade agitation, but their reduction to common apprehension was a labour of persistent repetition. As Cobden observed, " We have to keep saying the same thing orer and over again, nor can we avoid it. We must go on teaching until the lesson is learnt." We have to submit to a similar necessity. The truth about vaccination we have to assert and re-assert, nor feel ashamed of our monotony. The truth is   .establishiog itself: all over the country advo- cates are rising up to meet its adversaries. Wherever discussion is permitted, whether in the press or on the platform, it is the opponents of vaccination who have the facts, the sound arguments, and the victory. Where discus- sion is shirked it is avowedly to avoid disturbing the public confidence in the Jennerian rite, silence being preferred to the distress and exasperation of exposure. We answer the vaccinators : they do not answer us. Take, for example, the case of Mr. P. A. Taylor vermis Dr. W. B. Carpenter. No one can fail to see that Mr. Taylor followed Dr. Carpenter, and reduced his positions in detail, whilst Dr. Carpenter avoided Mr. Taylor with sedulous discretion, and was content to remain convicted of misstatements, inconsistencies, and general slovenliness. It does not seem to matter who is the champion of vaccination : if we get at him, we throw him. Many of the leading vaccinists do not descend to argument, but prophesy. Like Mause Headrigg, they "testifie at lairge." A contest on these terms can have but one end. As we sap and mine, and meet with no effective resistance, the vaccination fabric must come down* The enemy that does not fight is compelled to surrender. Some fine morning the Times will discover that the resistance to vaccination is no longer to be treated as non-existent - that is a great fact with which it is incumbent to reckon.   Dr C. Meymott Tidy, Medical Officer of St. Mary, Islington (the largest parish in the United Kingdom, having a population of 232,865) observes in his report for 1881 : -  " The total number of cases of smallpox during the year was 797, with 129 deaths, or 16*2 per cent. Of 78 unvaccinated persons attacked, 3G, or 60 per cent., died ; while of the 719 persons said to have been vaccinated (however imperfectly), 90 died, or 13'3 per cent."  Dr. Tidy knows that last century, when all were unvaccinated, the death-rate from  smallpox  varied from 15 to 24 per cent. ; so that it was a common saying that one of six attacked died. If Dr. Tidy were asked whether  smallpox  at this day were more deadly than a hundred years ago, he would reply, "Certainly not." " IIow, then," it would be fair to inquire, " do you report a death-rate of 50 per cent, among the unvaccinated of Islington in 1881 ? " We do not pretend to divine Dr. Tidy's answer, but we do recognise in the production of such bogus statistics the policy of pious fraud, which falsi- fies certificates of death to preserve vaccination from reproach, and conceals and denies disasters y   lest the confidence of the public in the benign  rite should suffer disturbance. Possessed of the  hospital formula, the contemporary death-rate of  the unvaccinated is accounted for with little difii-  culty. It runs thus : -  ''We do not mind what a patient says, nor what his friends say, of his vaccination. We look at his arms, and if we see vaccination marks, he is entered as vaccinated; but if we see no vaccination marks, he is entered as unvaccinated.''  The result is that the severest cases of  smallpox  are recorded as unvaccinated, the eruption rendering the marks indiscernible. Hence the high mortalities of the unvaccinated. The intensity of the disease is taken for proof of the absence of vaccination,   An admirable letter signed '^ Sanitas," on the prevention of smallpox by improved dwellings, appeared in Zandj of Oct. 14, accompanied with a critical editorial, which proves how faith in vaccination warps the natural intelligence. When " Sanitas " refers to the low death-rate of such quarters of London as Homsey, Hampstead, and Ealing, the editor replies that smallpox " is no stranger to Hampstead, in spite of the healthy conditions under which its inhabitants live " ; and " that there is not the least evidence that  smallpox  is conveyed or caused by defective drainage or house construction " ; adding that " tens of thousands living under such healthy conditions as an open air life on the American continent were swept away when Europeans, bringing with them smallpox, introduced that disease among an unvaccinated community." Concerning the sanitary condition of the American Indians, there is much to be said, but where the facts are so questionable and so hard to verify, it is well to avoid discussion, especially where there is sure ground at home. Dr. Alfred Carpenter, who often speaks as wisely as he occasionally does foolishly, observed last year at Brighton : -  *^ The class of disease called zymotic includes smallpox, fevers, cholera, diphtheria, et id genus amne. The place in which such disecuies will be most fatal are pretty well known. The conditions producing fatality are of man's making, and can DC removed by the action of man. It would be as impossible for zymotic diseases to exist among us as it is for fish to live long out of water if all excreta were rapidly removed and immediately utilised."  Thus to the tolerance of filth and stench is ascribed, and rightly ascribed, the origin of  smallpox  and other forms of zymotic disease. ** But what of infection? " it vrill be asked. We are not concerned to deny the generation of zymotic disease by infection ; that, for example, an im" mense smallpox hospital at Hampstead may.   communicate smallpox to adjacent households; or that a resident at Ealing may '' catch **  smallpox  from a sufferer in Bethnal Qreen; but the smallpox thus introduced to Hampstead or Ealing does not widely spread, but dies, in Br. Carpenter's words, like fish out of water. Pasteur teaches nothing more decisively than that germs of disease are attenuated and destroyed by exposure to oxygen; a conclusion which Dr. R. Angus Smith re-enforces and illustrates in his recent Report under the Rivers Pollution Act. Everywhere organic poisons are decomposed or recomposed and reduced to harmlessness by the free action of the air, else should we all perish by reason of our own existence ; and that the poison of smallpox should not fall under the same law that neutralises cognate forms of zymotic disease is to assert an exception with which science will hold no terms. smallpox is only to be conquered as other fevers are conquered, and withstood by the maintenance of health. It is well enough for mercenary quacks to say with Dr. Seaton that vaccination, and vaccination alone, can protect from smallpox ; but the time is not distant when it will be thought unaccountable that people, otherwise rational, ever gave quarter to such absurdity.  Captain Galton, at the meeting of the Sanitary Institute in Newcastle, referred to the curious and striking fact that " the various epi- demics which infest a town are apt to select the same quarter in their visitations, and, in some cases, even the same houses,'' giving as an instance Malta. He might also have cited Leicester. Several years ago Mr. Dudgeon prepared maps of several epidemics in that town, indicating the number of deaths in each street. ' The same phe- nomenon has been noted in Glasgow and in New York, and we suspect the like would be found more or less true wherever unwholesome houses and quarters maintain their character. Whether Captain Galton is a believer in vaccination did not appear ; at any rate, he failed to launch forth in its glorification ; nor, as a believer, would he have found it easy to explain how residents in certain houses suffered from smallpox, whilst residents in other houses escaped. The true Jennerian is bound to maintain that there is no salvation from smallpox outside vaccination, and to denounce trust in sanitation, wholesome quarters, or any similar substitutes as damnable heresy.   Lamb's Conduit Street, says Mr. Levy, should be re-named Calf's Conduit Street, on account of the National Animal Vaccine Station there set   up. According to an article in the Olohe of Oct. 13, the enterprise does not prosper. Some eight or ten children a-day twice a-week are brought to receive the Jennerian rite in its benignest form, or about 240 in all since the Calves' Temple was opened. Turning to the accounts, we find that the supply of animals has so far cost £300, their keep £250, and the management £650 ; so that the administration of the bovine sacrament amounts to at least £5 per head ! The result, whilst it proves how thoroughly factitious was the outcry for " pure lymph from the calf," will not be displeasing to the medical officials of the Local Government Board. They never had faith in the sweet things prophesied of pure lymph - of virus that was not virulent and only consented to the experiment in Lamb's Conduit Street to appease what seemed a dangerous clamour. The writer in the Globe expresses surprise that, " considering the outcry raised by the anti-vaccinators," the demand for animal vaccination should be so trifling. For " pure lymph from the calf," or any similar nonsense, anti- vaccinators have no responsibility. They regard it as an imposture on an imposture an attempt to stave off the downfall of a mischievous superstition ; and they will experience nothing but satisfaction when it is brought to naught.   Keigbley continues to maintain the place of honour in disregard of vaccination law and superstition. The vaccination officer's report for the quarter ending June, 1882, ran as follows :- " I have made 73 personal visits, and have sent 238 notices, and received 30 certificates of successful vaccination." His report for the whole Union for the six months, July to December, 1881, showed for the Keighley district only 41 successfully vaccinated against 475 births ; in the Bingley district only 25 vaccinated against 274 births; but in the Haworth district, 64 successfully vaccinated against 86 births. " Therefore," observes our informant, " if smallpox break out in this Union, you will see it will be at Haworth." For the whole Union the report shows 130 successful vaccinations against 835 births. The figures are truly gratifying, and we trust that future reports may show a continued approximation to a clean bill of health as concerns vaccination. It will stand to the glory of Keighley in future times that the inhabitants not only recognised the truth when it was discredited and despised, but proved their wisdom in their practice.   The time has come for Leicester to follow Keighley, and to break down the law once for all   .Last year there were a thousand parents fined in Leicester for protecting their children from vaccination ; and this year it is expected that double that number will be subjected to the same ordeal. When two or three in a town are prosecuted there may be no resource save submisnion to the penalty; but when the numbers rise to hundreds, the game passes into the hands of the oppressed They have simply to decline to pay fines, and thus throw upon the authorities the trouble and odium of a multitude of distraints and auctions to render the issue certain. The procedure involves a bad time for a number of families, but their distress may by combination be greatiy alleviated. Anyhow the hour has arrived for action. It is absurd for Leicester anti-vaccinators to submit to defeat in detail, being brought up in convenient batches, and severally fined 10s. and costs for doing their duty, when by the exercise of forethought and resolution they can put a final stop to the oper-ation ; and, moreover, set an example for encouragement and imitation elsewhere. When even the Conservative candidates for the repre^ sentation of Leicester in Parliament deprecate the enforcement of the law, and avow their intention of promoting its amendment, the signs are obvious that those who desire their freedom may have it if they possess the courage to take it.   the price pud for public vaccination continues steadily to increase. A few years ago it was £80,000~now it is upwards of £100,000 annually. Mr. Young favours us with the following statement of the cost of public vaccination in England and Wales in 1881, from the Eleventh Annual Report of the Local Government Board : -  Fees and expenses paid out of the poor rate £87,746  Awards or bonuses paid to 815 public vaccinators of 803 Unions inspected during 1881 under Section V. of the  vaccination  Act of 1867 16,903   £104,648   When we remember that the songs to the glory of vaccination are sung by the recipients of this immense sum of money and theb professional associates, it is easy to understand their fervour and persistency ; and it is rather hard that we should be so frequentiy taken to task for our imputation of bias on the part of these merce- naries. We ask any one with the least pretence to acquaintance with human nature (historic or contemporary) whether any iniquity, however flagrant, thus endowed would not be fought for with tooth, and nail, and craft? It would be outside reason and experience to expect other  wise. It is well to be charitable, but surely charity does not imply imbecility !   Many are the requests for the report of the inspectors upon the Norwich Inquiry. Mr. Dodson's reply is " that it will be issued shortly, but he is unable to say precisely on what date." Doubtless its preparation is felt to be a matter of critical importance. Vaccination must somehow be " preserved from reproach," but how? We shall in due season discover. Meanwhile, we learn from Mr. R. Lee Bliss, that vaccination has caused the death of another child in Norwich. At first all seemed to go well; the infant was perfectly healthy; but irritation developed and increased until convulsions ensued. The agony was so intense that the nurse required to hold the little sufferer's arm, " for it was as if she would wring ic from the socket." Death mercifully resulted on Oct. 13. As we have said before, there is nothing singular in such '* mishaps." They are of constant occurrence, and may be found by whoever cares to inquire for them. They are excused ; they are hushed up; they are denied; but as the attention of the public is aroused, it will be less and less easy to out-face the evidence, and '' preserve vaccination from reproach." Indescribable is the tale of infant suffering and maternal misery resulting from the cruel and useless rite.   STATE ASSISTANCE TO M. PASTEUR.  the Editor of Za Ligue de V AgricuUture for Sept. 10, 1882, writes as follows : -  M. de Mahy, the Minister of Agriculture, has just placed at the disposal of M. Pasteur a sum of 50,000 francs, to enable him to go on with his experiments on the contagious diseases of animals. Thus the money so lately asked for has been speedily given. The Commission of the Budget have awarded the sum on account of the " striking success " already obtained by M. Pasteur. Fifty thousand in 1882, 40,000 in 1881, 60,000 in 1880, make up a sum of 140,000 francs I And, let us add, the Secret Service Funds are set dancing to pay the expenses of travelling to international congresses, and causing the talents and the glories of the learned man to be sung by his friends and coadjutors. Have we not reason to say, '' This learned man will cost us dear? " For M. Pasteur acknowledges that up to the present time he has only found out how to kill the horses and half the sheep and cattle he vaccinates, and no doubt he will go on with his experiments till the latter have shared the fate of the former.  Thus our Medical Minister of Agriculture throws away 60,000 francs a year, and perhaps 200,000, if all were known, at the same time that he is reducing the grants to our provincial assemblies. Nothing for the Agriculturists, everything for these Saviours, who save nothing !.   NOTES OF A. TRAVELLER.  No. 3.  The Royal Borough of "Windsor - Iler Majesty's Experienoe of Rovaccination - What Evil Effects my Coachman Saw in Beer Lane - " No Time to Lay By " - A Bookseller's View - Suffering under the Shadow of the Throne - Child Killed in Camden Town - Hunted from House to House - The Bloodhounds of the Law.  the Royal Borough of Windsor is not the place where we should expect to find opposition to the vaccination law. Her Majesty has set her suhjects an example of obedience by having all her children vaccinated, and her grand- children doubtless have gone through the same ordeal. The Queen's medical advisers do not, however, we are told, trust to arm-to-arm vaccine; and when, during the severe smallpox epidemic of 1871-2, both vaccinated and unvaccinated succumbed to the pestilence to the number of 44,000, and the failure of the system was everywhere manifest. Sir William Jenner recommended her Majesty to fortify herself against the pest by revaccination. The operation was dulv performed in the most approved manner with vaccine virus, specially imported from Belgium for the purpose, and which it was believed was beyond all taint of suspicion. The Queen, as is well known, had a mild attack of smallpox in 1845, after vaccination in childhood.  The royal re-vaccination took place in the month of March, 1871, and very soon afterwards it began to be rumoured that her Majesty was not well, and it was loudly whispered that the illness was caused by the vaccination. This report was contradicted by Sir William Jenner, who had recommended the operation, and whose testimony could hardly be considered free from bias. The Standard, less reticent as to the cause of the illness, says it was abundantly clear that the Queen ^'must have been suffering from some form of blood-poi- soning ; " an abscess had formed in the arm, which was opened by Mr. Lister, and from that time the Queen began to improve. Since then we have bad a violent smallpox epidemic, but re-vaccination has not been resorted to Dv royalty with the former alacrity, though the vaccinating authorities are proclaiming more loudly than ever the urgency of repeatbg the operation every seven years.  While resting at the terminus of the Long Walk leading from the Castle, which vies in beauty with the noble avenue at Bushey Park, my loquacious coachman, who had pointed out for my information the chief points of interest en route, told me that he had uved in Windsor all his life, and had one child who was vaccinated when two years old, and " came out all right." Some of his neighbours, however, were not so fortunate, and he had heard of a good many '' bad arms " from vaccination. The day before yesterday he said he called on a working man who lived in Beer-lane, whose child had lost both eyes from vaccination, one of which had just been extracted by a surgeon, and now " the poor thing had not a eye in its 'ead." " How do you know that vaccination caused the mischief," said I ; '^ did the doctor say so ? " " No, the doctor do not   admit it, but the mother and the father says so, and that 's what I 'ear talk." " Perhaps you don't believe much in vaccination ? " said I. " No, I don't. Dr. C, the public vaccinator, has been after me a good many times to be vaccinated, because he says there 's a good deal of disease about, and you ought to be done. * But, doctor,* I says, ' I 've been knocking about a good many years, and I never catched nothing ; besides,' I says, 'I have to get my living, and have no time to lay by while- 1 get through it.'" "Do the people in Windsor generally accept  vaccination ? " " Yes, most of 'em do, and if the doctors can't persuade 'em to have it done they don't make no fuss about it." " Did you ever hear of any parent beinor prosecuted for non^ vaccination ? " " Not in Windsor."  A lady bookseller in Pescod Street, in reply to my question if she knew of anyone interested in the vaccination question, said, with unconscious irony, " Yes, all the doctors are interested." " But do you know of anyone opposed to vaccination? " " Well, if I had a dozen children, I would not have one of them vaccinated. It is nothing but spreading disease from one human being to another, and we have enough without that. I don't believe in it." "Is there any active opposition to compulsory vaccination? " "No. Outside the Borough you get summoned all round, but in Windsor you can get off for most things, vaccination included." My coachman's opinion, that " they make no fuss about it in Winasor," was confirmed by several witnesses. Her Majesty's example of re-vaccination, and its serious consequences, has probablv acted as a deterrent, and her loyal subjects tiiere being, as yet, no law to enforce re-vaccination - do not care to incur the risk. Nevertheless, as the case of the poor child in Beer-lane, ** who had not a eye in its 'ead " illustrates, there must be unspeakable suffering arising out of the operation of the Vaccination Acts, even under the shadow of the throne.  Since writing the above, I have heard of the prosecution of a respectable tradesman in the Hiffh Street, Windsor, which may possibly be owing to the dissemination of anti-vaccination literature by my coachman and by several of the booksellers, who objected to parental coercion, and gladly promised to circulate any tracts relating to the subject. The recalcitrant testified before the magistrates at the Petty Sessions, as "a reasonable excuse, that he had six children, five of whom had been vaccinated. The first was nearly killed by the operation, and two others had been rendered half blind, and would be so for life. There were others present whose children had been seriously injured by vaccination." These weighty reasons, which would be overwhelming before an unprejudiced Bench - if such could be found - were treated with contempt, and an order made to vaccinate within three months.  I called on a small newsvendor in Camden Town, London, just off Park Street, to purchase some copies of the Weekly Times, and explaining why I wanted so many of this particular issue, tnat it contained a story showing " How Baby was Killed by. Vaccination," the woman's face assumed a sorrowful look, and, with difficulty restraining her tears, said, " I, too, have had a child killed   by  vaccination , and as fine and healthy a child as eTer was born. It was vaccinated when six months old, and soon after there were holes in its side as deep as though they had been burnt in with a hot iron, and from which putrid matter ran all the time. It died after two years' terrible suffering, covered with abscesses.'' I asked what the doctor said concerning the case. " The doctor said, if he had not known her and her husband to be respectable people, he should have said we had given the child the bad disorder. But, sir, it was the vaccination." And she added, ^'I know a woman whose child died from blood-poisoning from the same cause. I'll get you the papers; I'm glad they 're showing it up ; it ought to be put an end to."  The same afternoon I was looking over a house in St. John's Wood Park, and noticed a sickly- looking child lying in bed. The mother, in answer to my inquiries, sold it was vaccinated four months ago, when a large abscess made its appearance under its arm. The doctor who performed the operation was called in, and flatly refused to assign the cause of the abscess, the child having previously been without blemish of any kind. When the mother said it was the vaccination, he said ^' it had to be done." She then took the child to her own doctor, who, in like manner, was silent as to her child's abscess. But she knew, and they knew, and every mother knows, who knows anything, that vaccination was the cause. This ^oor woman had two older children un vaccinated who were quite well, and had escaped contamination and ner pursuers - like thousands of hunted vaccination fugitives in this huge metropolis - by going from house to house, sometimes escaping by night to elude the bloodhounds of the law, until the vaccination officer lost sight of them. Nor are these ferocious child-hunters ashamed of their unrighteous calling. Mr. J. G. Gerrans, M.R.G.S., wrote some time ago to the Lancet, alluding to his own zeal, as follows : " I have one of the largest vaccinations in London, derived from a densely populated neighbourhood, and which I look closely after, but though I hunt them like a bloodhound on the nvurderer*s trail, I am often thrown out."  Can a system upheld by such cruelty and injustice long be allowed to exist ?   NEW ENGLAND ANTI-COMPULSORY VACCINATION LEAGUE.  At a conference of anti-vaccinators, held at Hartford, Conn., Sept. 26, 1882, there was organised a league called the New England Anti- Compulsory Vaccination League. The president of this league is Dr. J. Dobson, of Fairfield, Conn., and its secretary is Dr. Buf us K. Noyes, of Lynn, Mass. It is believed that by holding montnly meetings throughout New England numbers of people may be brought to see what an evil vaccination is.  RuFus K. Notes, M.D.  Thk Evesham Lztteb. - There being a constant demand for this Letter by parties under prosecution for refusal to vaccinate, the London Society has had it reprinted, and copies, id. each, may be had of Mr. Wm. Young, 114^ Yictoria Street, S.W.   ANTI-VACCINATORS AND THEIR ENEMIES.  One of the strangest features which will present itself to the future historian will mevitably be the great vaccine crusade, now so deliberately, so pertinaciously, and so unavailingly prosecuted. LiKe the game of chess, it is one of attack and defence, and the pawns are little children. Once the attacking party fondly imagined they had merely to deal with conscientious objectors, and it was considered politic in many vaccine circles to treat such people with the contempt which the Cavaliers of old poured upon the Roundheads. But a step in advance has now been made ; and in addition to the human conscience the human intellect is joining in the revolt against the incubus of Jenner, and hb insolent and overbearing gospel. The late successful national uprising in Switzerland has borne immediate fruit ; the Council of Government in Basle is stated to have released this year's recruits from the dreaded re-vaccination, while the great Council of the important canton of Berne has agreed by a large majority to take into consideration a measure for abolition. News from the Cape announces the gratifying intelli- gence that Archdeacon Colley has accepted the office of President of the newly-formed Anti- Vaccination League at Natal, and it is with pride that we read in the London Times that the Venerable Archdeacon has expressed his determination to go to prison rather than act against his principles.  and amidst the surging waves of this impudent attempt to subject the whole infantile population of the globe to useless disease from calf or cow - at a moment when missionaries are engaged to besiege Eaffirland with the Bible in one hand and the equally sacred lymph in the other, what is the position of the Dissenting leaders, on whose fiag I dimly recollect reading m early infancy the word '' Toleration '' in flaming letters of gold, now consigned to oblivion with the used-up principle that once led to victory? I ask them to peruse the following stirring words by one of my fellow-workers in our unstained cause of common sense and common decency. They are addressed to a magistrate, to a dissenter, and to a doctor : -  '^I am perfectly willing to admit that you honestly believe in vaccination, although I am also certain that you have only examined your own side of the question. But do you, as a religious dissenter and a deacon of the Inde Eendents, who are supposed to carefully guard berty of conscience, do you consider it consistent to condemn to fine and imprisonment those who do not agree with you, and who are medical dissenters? If we are able (as you say) to judge for ourselves in religious matters, and also in political matters, surely we ought to be able to judge for ourselves in regard to health. Do you not think we are anxious to have our children healthy? And I will challenge you to find in all the city children healthier than we Anti-Vaccinators can shew ; and if you can convince us that vaccination will improve their health, we shall be the first to consent; but fines and imprisonment will not convince us, and that you know. Did the imprisonment of your.   ancestor in Portsmouth jail convince him of the evil of Dissent? Cannot you see that your doctrine of protecting health by disease is the same as castioff out deyils by the prince of the devils? You deliberately refuse to allow perfect health. And when we see men whom we have been in the habit of looking up to, hounding-on magistrates to greater seventy, people will not be able to resist the thought that your profession lives by disease and does not want perfect health.'^ The above words '' need no comment." Oct. 10, 1882. H. D. Dudgeon.   THE GHASTLY RISK.  I CAN answer for the correctness of the follow- ^ing ghastly story in every particular. The friend who sends me the account, and in whose accuracy entire reliance may be placed, himself visited and saw the unhappy victim, and took down the particulars from her parents ; while the medical facts of the case are attested by the girFs medical at- tendant. My friend did not at all anticipate that the parents would permit .their names to be mentioned under such painful circumstances; but, very much to their honour, as I think, they declined to shrink from publicity, in the hope that the knowledge of their calamity may be a warning to others. I will let my friend narrate the story in his own words : -  " The yoimg girl, now fifteen years old, is the daughter of Mr. Bushell, greengrocer, Hessell-road, Hull. I found her lyiag on a sofa, in a semi- conscious condition, her eyes covered with a large wet cloth; a sad sight. Her parents, who were both present, informed me that she was vaccinated at six weeks old by their family doctor, Mr. Gibson. They saw the child from which the lymph was taken, and it appeared quite healthy ; their child was also in perfect health. In about nine days it was covered with sores and scabs, and was ill for some five months, when it got better and the eruptions disappeared. But at five years old her eyes became bad, and sores broke out in different parts. Medical aid was called in, and she was treated for ophthalmia. From that time till now she has'.been suffering. At the present moment her eyes, ears, nose, teeth, and lips are all affected ; she is blind and deaf. Her father and mother are both quite healthy, so are all her brothers and sisters. The parents inform me that Dr. Bockcliffe, who is now attending her, says it is a case of constitutional syphilis, and that vaccination was the cause."  There is, unhappily, nothing new in all this, and my only reason for calling public attention to the case is that the truth thus, as it were, indi- vidualised produces a much deeper impression than when it is stated generally, as it was by Sir Thomas Watson, as involving a "ghastly risk."  P. A. Taylob.   Mitigated Penalties. - A number of persons were summoned to the Borough Police Court, London, on Oct. 17, for non-compliance with provisions of the Vaccination Acts. In one case an order to vaccinate within twenty-one days was made, whilst the other defendants were each fined 28. 6d., including costs. Under the Summary Jurisdiction Act of 1879, any fine of less than 5s. does not carry costs.   VACCINATION AND ITS PROMOTERS IN  BELGIUM.  In a letter to Dr. Comilleau, editor of the Courtier des Sciences^ Paris, Dr. Hubert Boens observes : -  Belgium, like France, has men of science clever enough to keep on good terms with government and popular ignorance, thus making for themselves income and reputation. France had Claude Bernard, a true savant and a noble character ; she has M. Pasteur ! Belgium had Lombards, Verhey ens, Seutins ; she has M. Warlomont !  Each has had his hour of triumph. Mounted on the shoulders of enthusiastic friends, they have been borne into Academies and captured the favour of Ministers. The learned world, dazzled and fascinated with the cool assumption of these self-styled discoverers and their wonders and priceless inventions, received them with deference. But the first hours of mystification having passed away, medical men on the one hand, and agricul- turists on the other, be^an to reflect and to reckon up the blessings for which humanity was assumed to stand indebted to these great men ; and what do they find ? A wreath of smoke, redolent of organic decay, rising from certain factories in Paris and Brussels, and vanishing in the air. Of benefits, of real discoveries, of serious inventions, of new truths, acquired and demonstrated, not a trace I One of these worthies undertakes to an- nihilate smallpox with his animal vaccine ; the other promises to save men, cattle, fowls, turkeys, and ducks, just as he has saved our vines and our silkworms, from the frightful invasion of microbes !  We shall say no more of M. Pasteur and his successive ovations at the Academy, and among the vine-growers and silk-worm breeders - ovations which will be inevitably followed by fresh disasters in the domain of medical and veterinary art, which he assumes to revolutionise with his imaginery vaccines, weakened^ attenuated^ or strengthened at will. Reform and revive Medicine ! He who has not even the merit of revealing a new fact concerning ferments or virus ; for, from the time of Hippocrates the humblest practitioner has known perfectly well that virus and ferments, as well as miasma, vapours, and gases, are weahsned, attenuated, or strengthened according to the condition of the medium in which they exist, and the volume of oxygen or at- mospheric air with which they are brought into contact.  Confining our observations to M. Warlomont, or allowing, rather, the editor of the Art Medical, Dr. A. Feigneaux, to make his remarks on his former associate; both, be it observed, fervent disciples of Jenner, he says : -  " For fourteen years Belgium had to submit to vaccination with virus manufactured by M. Warlo- mont in the name of the Government. But as the laurels, or rather the cash, which accrued to the director of the factory, excited envy, the factory was disestablished and disendowed. Naturally M. Warlomont felt aggrieved, and denounced the new arrangements for the provision of vaccine, and announced, urbi et orhi, that to protect his fellow- citizens from defective vaccine he would open a vaccine store of his own, where lymph prepared by himself, according to i>eculiar methods, could be had in tubes, or pomade at so much per box."   .M. Feigneaux, discerning in ihha enterprise serious opposition to the new administration of Taccine, resolved to let us know the true character of that animal vaccine which M. Warlomont had for fourteen years retailed throughout Belgium. He has, therefore, attacked him in a series of arti- cles which fully confirm those charges which led to the suppression of his subsidised vaccine factory. The famous animal vaccine, that most precious prophylactic f is now revealed to us alike in its inception, development^ and results. Says M. Feigneaux : -  '' The suppression of the State Vaccine Institute has produced a sense of general relief in medical circles. It was merely a common shop for the sale of vaccine, carried on for fourteen years for the advantage of M. Warlomont under cover of benefit to the working- classes.''  Further, "M. Warlomont has luckily hit upon some new preparations of vaccine of great value, of which, after the manner of M. Pasteur, he reserves to himself the exclusive monopoly. He offers an emulsion at 2 francs per bottle, and a pomade at from 6| francs to 25 francs a pot.''  M. Feigneaux goes on to observe that '' among the vaccinated with the Warlomont virus, during the fourteen years of monopoly conceded to the Academician, the following distinctions and deductions had to be made : -  ''1. Those vaccinated several times, in whom the virus did not take, until the parents, tired of paying 2 f . an operation, were allowed to remain unprotected.  *' 2. Those who had pointed pustules of doubtful character, as if the virus were a product of putrefaction.  " 3. Those whose marks were accounted regular, though not so good as under the old system of vaccination."  " Would you know how Belgium has been so long mystified? " asks M. Feigneaux, and answers : -  " Dr. Lanoiz, in 1865, sent from France a vaccinated heifer to M. Warlomont. With this limited capital, he set up a vaccine factory, and sold his produce at 5f. and 10 f. per tube. He succeeded in obtaining a subsidy of 5,000 f., but he could not meet the demand. He was working on too small a scale. There was a scarcity of vaccine, and to provide an adequate supply the Government set up the Vaccine Institute, nominally as an experiment for twelve years."  Substantially, the Vaccine Institute was a development of M. Warlomont's business for his private advantage. He seized every opportunity of magnifying animal vaccination and discrediting the older practice. Humanised vaccine, he said, was the vehicle of syphilis, of scrofula, and a variety of ailments more or less ^rave, and ought everywhere to be set aside for his wonderful^ his pure, his harmless animal vaccine.  What does M. Warlomont now say of animal vaccine and humanised vaccine? Let us turn to his most recent declaration. Here it is : -  " Animal vaccination ought only to be the aux- iliary of arm-to-arm vaccination. Preserved is inferior to living vaccine. Up to the present time no method of keeping vaccine has succeeded so as to equal fresh vaccine. Wherefore the offer of   preserved animal vaccine by the Government to all comers is unlikely to result in good, and is likely to result in the extinction of the better practice of arm-to-arm vaccination."  This is plain speaking. M. Warlomont does not hesitate to eat his own words when it suits him. Animal vaccine is good, but only good, like milk or mutton, when purchased fresh from his establishment, and prepared by his incommuni- cable methods. To those who understand trade as trade, his procedure is perfectly intelligible \ but what shall be said of M. Warlomont as a physician, a man of science, and a Belgian luminary I  At the same time, that the Belgian Government should also condescend to engage in a trafiic so disreputable, with M. Warlomont as a competitor, is humiliating. The pretext is our salvation from a malady for which municipal and personal clean- liness is the all-sufficient defence. The statistics of the past eighty years demonstrate that the influence of vaccination on smallpox is for aggra- vation, not mitigation, still less prevention. Far rather would it stand to the credit of Belgium if a decree w"re issued constituting vaccination a penal offence.  PROSECUTION OF MR. E. M. LYNCH.  The Keigate justices had Mr. Lynch again before them on Oct. 16. He tried to convince them that they were not hound to issue any order, but only if they saw fit, and appealed to them to exercise their discretion in a rational manner - first, because he was bound in conscience to disregard the law ; and, second, on the ground that the respect due to the law suffers when a particular law, however bad it be, is broken. He called their attention to the Norwich inquiry, to Sir Thomas Watson's " ghastly risk," to the Parliamentary returns proving the increase of inoculable diseases pari passu with the extension of vaccination, and to the great 1871 epidemic of smallpox, to all appearance unaffected by general vaccination. He was heard without interruption, but was answered with the customary irrele- vancies, " Very sorry, but we have no alternative," &c., and an order to vaccinate within a month, and 8s. 6d. costs. The case of Mr. Coates followed, he not appearing in person, and a fine of lOd. and costs was imposed.  Before proceeding further against Mr. Lynch and Mr. Coates, we should advise the Guardians to peruse the letter addressed by the Local Government Board to the Evesham Guardians, wherein they are counselled to leave irreconcilables alone, lest they excite additional resistance to the law. Many Boards of Guardians have adopted this policy. In Camberwell, for instance, it is the custom after one prosecution to desist; and in other parishes when the  vaccination officer reports "It is of no use doing anything in this case," nothing is done. There is also a prudent saying, " Never fight when you see in advance that you will be beaten," which is also worth consideration.   Vaccination is a gone-up institution. Mr. Tebb has tebbued it. - Banner of Light, Oct. 7.   THE NEW DESPOTISM,  [Pall Mall OazeUe, Oct. 21.]  Englishmen, who have destroyed in turn the despotism of the soldier and of the priest, seem in a fair way to succumb to the despotism of the doctor. To the fear of invasion and the dread of perdition have succeeded a horror of disease, and a longing for physical well-being, which seem as if they were likely to deliver the public, bound hand and foot, to the tender mercies of the medical profession. The officer of health takes the place of the Grand Inquisitor, and the doctor, like the priest in bygone days, invokes without hesitation the arm of the law. We have not yet reached the period in which human beings who are criminal enough to fall ill of an infectious disease will be despatched as summarily as cattle infected with rinderpest. But we are travelling thither at such a rate as even to alarm not a few members of the medical profession. The unanimous recommendatioDS of the Royal Commissioners appointed to report on the smallpox and fever hospital accommodation of London are a startling reminder of the distance we have advanced in the direction of treating disease as crime. They declare that it is imperatively necessary that every case of infectious disease should be immediately and effectually isolated. The moment a man falls ill of an infectious disease, his state must be notified to the medical officer of health. That official must see that the imfortunate patient is either isolated in his own house or forthwith removed to the public hospital. He becomes the prisoner of the Metro- politan Asylums Board, "who will thereupon be at once and entirely charged with the patient till his complete recovery." In the public hospital he will be secluded from his friends, at- tended by strangers, and surrounded by the sick and dying. If he can neither be isolated nor removed, the medical officer is to be invested with high and singular powers. He is to be allowed to clear the house of all its inmates, interning them, if need be, in a state of quarantine in detached buildings, and forbidding them all access to the house in which the patient lies, except on the order of the medical officer. " In all cases he will be bound to disinfect the house, and should be empowered to require the re vaccination of all occupants who are not otherwise protected." All these provisions, of course, can be defended. A great deal can be said on behalf of all of them in the public interest, just as a very great deal could be said in favour of the vivisection under anaes- thetics of the worst class of murderers. But hitherto Englishmen have preferred to take their chance of death and disease rather than submit to such restraints. If they bow their necks to the yoke it will be one among other signs that the popular estimate of the comparative importance of liberty is no longer so high as it used to be.  Infectious diseases have taken the place of damnable heresies, and the whole machinery of the State is to be put in force for their extirpation. The immediate consequence of this esta- blishment of the Inquisition is an attempt to evade the grasp of its familiars. Compulsory notification of disease may be decreed, but its first result is to encourage a conspiracy to conceal   its existence. During the late epidemic of  smallpox  at Greenwich, there was one street nearly everv bouse in which had patients to whom no medical man was called in, lest he should order their removal to the hospital. It is notorious that many patients are killed by removal, and it would be more humane and much more efficacious if they were quietly put out of the way at home. The dread of removal, which is regarded as equi- valent to a sentence of death, leads to the unchecked spread of disease at a period when prompt medical advice might have cnecked its ravages. To this the reply of the sanitarian is simple. He demands another turn of the screw. A Bill was before Parliament last year which empowered the medical officer of health to make domiciliary visits where and when he pleased. It was proposed that '^ the medical officer should have the rigH of entry into any house where he suspected infectious or contagious disease to be present ; that he should have the right to examine any person in that house whom he might suspect to be the sub- ject of infectious or contagious disease ; to have the sick removed to hospital and the sound to a place of quarantine ; and, lastly, that he should have the rignt of marlang with a coloured placard any infected house." We are not denying that all this may be necessary ; but we may take the liberty of pointing out that no foreign despot ever armed his police with mora arbitrary powers for the extirpation of Nihilism than those with which it is now proposed to arm the police of sanitation. Domiciliary visits, unlimited right of search, absolute authority to imprison a household in hospital or in quarantine I These powers should not be conferred lightly on any one, least of all upon such enthusiastic specialists as the members of the medical profession. If we have to choose between liberty and health, let us at least be sure that we shall gain the one if we sacrifice the other. This week 277 out of the 800 medical men of Liverpool memorialised the City Council against the proposal to com|)eI all doctors to report cases of infectious disease to the sanitary authority, on the ground, among others, that there was no satisfactory evidence that the system has anywhere been attended by practical benefit to the community. It b a new system. The first Act giving these compulsory powers was passed in 1877, and in none of the towns where they have been in force has there been such a marked decrease in infectious disease as to prove that it is worth while to convert doctors into detectives, and to give every medical officer of health authority to issue lettres de cachet ordering patients to the ho8]^ital. All these restraints and restrictions and interferences with the liberty of the subject may keep people alive a little longer, but they bid fair to make life itself not worth living. The perfect sanitary conditions of a convict's cell m a model prison are less attractive to mankind than liberty in the slums ; and there are few who would not consent to sacrifice a few years of life rather than submit every day in life to the irksome strait- waistcoat of a martinet sanitarianism. If the doctors, or rather the active minority of the profession who are always pressing for further powers, do not take care, they will be in great peril of provoking   a dangerous reaction in favour of those who, to parody Bishop Magee's declaration, would prefer to see England diseased and free rather than that she should purchase health at the expense of liberty.  WILLIAM GIBSON WAKD.  We have to record the death of Mr. Ward, at his home, Perriston Towers, Rosa, Herefordshire, on Oct. 18, in his sixty-third year. Many of our readers have observed the disappearance of Mr. Ward's contributions from our pages - a disappearance due to a long and painful illness, originating, it was suspected, in injuries received at a public meeting some years ago. Mr. Ward was a man of wide information and ardent cha- racter ; and his opinions on theology, politics, and science were delivered with unmistakable force. Having discovered the truth as concerns  vaccination, he brought the entire vigour of his powerful mind to bear on its diffusion ; and sustained his own prosecution as a parent with the joy of one who delights in battle. He had repeatedly to reproach us with our milk and water advocacy, and could scarcely be brought to recognise that what he considered our foible was our principle. What he saw clearly, he thought all might see clearly. He failed to allow for the illimitable stupidity of the mass of his fellow-creatures - stupidity over which only steady work with pick and spade can prevail. On the other hand, we allow that every cause is served by various modes of action. The strong writing that repels some attracts and converts others ; and Mr. Ward had his successes to justify his tactics. As concerns the opposition to vaccination, we have many adherents who confess to what is right in secret, and abide in silence for fear of the Jews. The reverse in every respect was our dear friend ; and whenever we require a reminder of our duty in the courageous service of truth, it will suffice to think of him.   Mr. W. H. Whiteway Wilkinson, L.B.C.P., observes in "Practical Observations on  vaccination," 1882: - "Diarrhoea is not an unconmion complication of vaccination."  The Rev. Frederick Wagstaff, of Church Hill, Wednesbnry, in an admirable letter recommending sanitation as the true antagonist of smallpox, published in the Free Press of Sept. 16, further observed : - " I have no desire to pose as an avowed opponent of vaccination. I frankly confess that the evidence I have yet seen leaves me somewhat undecided as to the value of Jenner's discovery. But I must say that I do not see how any very strong case is made oat in favour of re-vaccination. Indeed the very pertinacity with which medical men advocate this course goes far to suggest to my mind that they are losing confidence in their own remedy, since at one time, at least, the great merit of vaccination was deemed to be the complete immunity it gave throughout life from the attack of disease. Whatever may be the weight of evi- dence in support of the theory that smallpox has been greatly lessened by vaccination, it is dear that numerous cases occur in which the disease attacks vaccinated persons; nor are cases unknown in which the second operation has been ineffectual."   MR. LEVY'S LECTURE.  It was intended to open the session of the London Society's Conferences with a discussion on the Norwich Inquiry, but on consideration it was thought better to defer it until after the appearance of the Inspectors' Report. Instead, Mr. J. IJ. Levy delivered a lively and able address on " Politics and Disease," relating his experience at the Social Science Congress, Nottingham. He warned the meeting of the monstrous aggressions on public liberty contemplated under the project for the Compulsory Notification of Infectious Diseases, and announced his intention of sparing no pains to expose the designs of the contrivers of what the Pall Mall Gazette designates '* The New Despotism." The surest defeat for such conspira- cies is provided by publicity, and it is satisfactory to know that Mr. Levy will repeat his lecture throughout a circuit of Working-Men's Clubs.  Of vaccination, Mr. Levy says: - "I am undecided whether it is good, or whether it is bad ; but, admitting its goodness, I hold that it is wholly unjustifiable to inflict it on those who think it is bad. If it be right to vaccinate those who are convinced it is wrong, against what violations of liberty and conscience can we protest ? "  The second Conference of the London Society will be held in Victoria Street, on Monday evening, November 20, at 7.30 o'clock. The subject will be announced to members and friends by post-card.  VACCINATION SPIES IN SCHOOLS.  South London Anti-Compulsory Vaccination Society, 34, Bagshotrstreet, S.E.,  Oct. 11, 1882. Sib, - In the Times of Sept. 16 appeared a paragraph headed ''How to stamp out  smallpox ," from which it appears that Dr. Bianchi, the Medical Officer of the St. Saviour's Board of Works, " during the year " inspected over 1,900 children at the various schools in the district, and found that out of this number 61 had never been vaccinated, whose names and addresses he gave to the vaccination officer, and requested him to take steps to have them vaccinated immediately. I am therefore instructed to forward to you the following resolution passed by this Society; a similar resolution having been passed at the Conference of the National Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League at Banbury: -  Besolved, - That in the opinion of this meeting, the conduct of Dr. Bianchi, in examining the several schools in Southwark, and reporting the names and addresses of the unvaccinated children therein found to the vaccination officer ; and also the conduct of the heads of the schools in permitting such examination is most reprehensible, and calls for our strong condemnation.  On writing to one of the members of St. Saviour's Board of Works on this matter, he replied : -  '' Ton are wrong in your surmises respecting Dr. Bianchi and the Board Schools. I know that he was refused permission to examine the children of those schools. I believe that he examined our   local, or rather parochial schools, which include Mrs. Newcomen's school, 200, and the Blue schools, about 700. "Where he got the remainder from I do not know."  You will see from this quotation that there are over 1,000 children unaccounted for, and the inference is that, if Dr. Bianchi is correct, they were children under the control of the London School Board ; and I shall be glad to hear from you whether I am in stitied in my inference. And I shall be further glad to learn that the Board will not only directly adhere to their letter of April 6, 1881, but that they will iesue a circular to all the Board Schools, forbidding the teachers to permit medical examinations, with a view to finding out whether the children have been vaccinated. I am, Sir, your obedient servant,  Gbobge Boke, Hon. Sec.  To Edward North Buxton, Esq., Chairman of the London School Board.  School Board for London, Victoria Embankment, Oct. 18, 1882.  m  Sib, - I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, and to inform you that it has Deen submitted to the School Management Committee.  I have to state in reply that the Committee did not consider it advisable to take any action whatever.  I am. Sir, your obedient servant,  G. H. Cboap, Clerk of the Board.  To George Bone, Esq.  Mr. Bone's demands were somewhat in excess of probable compliance. The Board is pledged not to permit children in school to be exposed to medical detectives; and if Br. Bianchi effected the inspection he asserts, he committed an unwarrantable intrusion. We take it that the School Management Committee hold by the pledge already given, but decline to be drawn into a crimination of Dr. Bianchi. At the same time, it is not for our friends in London to let the matter rest, and they cannot do better than strictly question candidates for the School Board as to whether they will bind themselves to keep vaccination spies out of the schools.   A Momentous Education Question for the Consideration of Parents and Others who desire the WeU'being of the Rising Generation, By P. A. SiLJESTBOM, late Member of the Swedish Parliament. Translated from the Swedish by J. J. Gabth Wilkinson. Fuhlished by William Young, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster. Priced.  What shall we say of this beautiful little pamphlet? Simply, Buy it, read it, circulate it. A more adroit introduction of the question of vaccination to thoughtful people it would be difficult to conceive. There are no words wasted, and the truth is set forth with fulness, firmness, and ^' sweet reasonableness." Therefore, we claim for it the especial favour of all our friends.   FROM MISS E. STUART PHELPS,  Author of " The Gates Ajar."  East Gloucester, Massachusetts, September 29, 1882.  My Dear Sir,--In reply to your letter, I must say that, though I am not wont to be too far behindhand in reforms, and do not like to let a new appeal to the chivalry of the world go by me without deep attention, I am too ill to give the matter of which you write the investigation which anything of such importance deserves. And at first sight I do not feel moved in this direction. Compulsory vaccination seems to me by far the less of two evils, and one of those cases wherein the general good must rule the individual evil.  If I ever see light to the contrary, I shall say so with no uncertain sound. For the present, I must decline to join the Society which you represent. - Very truly yours,  Elizabeth Stuart Phelps.  To Mr. William Tebb, London.  Miss Phelps occupies the common portion of those who have not entered into the question of vaccination, having inherited the Jennerian tradition. When she is well enough to look into the matter for herself, we entertain no doubt as to the result of her judgment. Where, we should like to ask, does Miss Phelps find another '^ of those cases wherein the general good must rule thf^ individual evilP'' When the benefit of analogy is claimed for compulsory vaccination, we like to have an example.   FROM DK. JOHN BELL, M.A.  Camden High Schools, 168, Camden Street, N.W.  April 27, 1882. Sib, - Having had the misfortune to suffer in my family through neglect of vaccination, until an infant was thought strong enough, I beg to tell you that I would like to see all anti-vaccinators removed to a neighbourhood where their tenets were held, and where, happily, they would soon be a rapidJy-diminished band.  Vours vaccinated,  J. Bell, LL.D., M.A. To Mr. William Young, 114, Victoria Street.  We are sorry we cannot reciprocate the kindly wish of this good man. His infant, too weak to be vaccinated, died of smallpox. Many strong and vaccinated infants die of smallpox, their vaccination probably contributing to the fatal issue. Perhaps Dr. Bell would have preferred that his child should have died of vaccination under the periphrase of erysipelas, pysemia, atrophy, or diarrhoea. Tastes are various.   FROM REKTOR SILJESTROM.  Stockholm, October 1, 1882.  Deab Sib, - ^Will you allow me, in the interest of our common cause, to make the following suggestions?  Must anti-vaccinators ever and anon be obliged to meet the continued cavilling of their oppo- nents on equal terms - for ever be obliged to repeat "what a hundred times has been said against   .argaments long ago disposed of? Or have they established no facts concerniDg which there can be no more dispute, and which may serve as a sure basis for further discussion on the general subject ? For myself, I think such is the case, particularly with regard to the following four points. It has been proved: -  FiBST. - That disease (specially erysipelas and syphilis) and death have not unfrequently been observed to result from vaccination; and the more frequently that observation has been exercised.  Second. - That the practice of vaccination affords no national protection from smallpox, and has had no effect whatever in preventing or diminishing smallpox epidemics.  Thibd. - ^That the mortality among vaccinated smallpox patients is as great as among un vaccinated.  Fourth. - ^That smallpox mortality has exercised no perceptible influence on the average general mortality.  Are npt these propositions sufficiently proved? Are they not founded on positive facts? May we not say of them, as the doctors used to say of the vaccination theory, that they cannot be questioned, and cannot be matter for discussion? And may we not retort the well-worn epithets of " ignorant " and " fanatic '' upon those who persist, in face of the demonstrations effectea in recent years, in citing antiquated rubbish in sup- port of an exploded theory? Finally, is not e^ich of the above propositions sufficient to condemn compulsory vaccination? And is anything more needed, beyond what is already proved, to warrant legislation in accordance with the facts?  What I mean to say is this, that whatever may in the future be adduced in support of our cause, our opponents should be persistently informed that we no longer consider it as necesaari/, but only as corroborative, of what is sufficiently established. In other words, that anti- vaccinators are no longer to be regarded, as far as arguments are concerned, as an eccUsia miiitaiu, but as an ecclesia triumphant, - Yours very truly,  P. A. SiLJBSTBOM.  To WUliam Tebb, Esq.  DO THEY, INDEED, BELIEVE?  Dbab Mb. Tkbb, - There are many thing that no fellow can understand. One of them is the determination of vaccinators, who profess to be honest men, to write and print that were vaccination universal, smallpox would be at once stamped out, when all with eyes or ears must know that crowds of the vaccinated are attacked by, and die of, smallpox.  A ship with a sailor in smallpox on board, anchored in the roads here ; and our public vaccinator was asked by the Police Commissioners whether he had been down in the forecastle to examine the patient closely. He replied, " I would not go into that ill-ventilated place for £600 "'  Do such persons honestly believe that  vaccination is of any real value? If they do, they have much need to pray to God for more wisdom. - Yours faithfully,  J. Mackenzie, M.D., F.K.C.P. Edin.  Eileanach, Inverness. Oct. 12, 1882.   SALT MEAT AND DISEASE.  The supply of food has much to do with health, and, consequently, with vigour. A well-fed people will work harder, invent more, start more various industries, than a starving race. They live longer and increase faster. Six centuries ago, and, indeed, till much later times, English people had to eat salted meat for a considerable portion of the year. It was not till the artificial grasses were introduced from France in the seventeenth century that much live-stock could be kept through the winter. Half the diseases which swept off the population in those days are to be traced to the want of fresh meat. How much, too, of health and well-being turns on the question of habitation. Look at the small, low rooms of former times, and consider what was the amount of cubic space in which even well-to-do people had to eat, sleep, and live in those days.  These remarks are taken from the address of Mr. G. W. Hastings, M.P., at the late Social Science Congress; and we cite them in proof of the powerful influence of food on disease^-an influence that is rarely sufficiently allowed for in considering the epidemics of former times. Salt meat was the common fare of the majority of Londoners, even into the present century , and, coupled with overcrowding, went far to explain the virulence of smallpox among them.   M. PASTEUR'S INSURANCE COMPANY.  In the Lyons Journal of Veterinary Medicine for August we find the following report of the meeting, on June 8, of the National Central Society of Veterinary Medicine : -  Only one question was arranged for discussion on this occasion, but it was of great importance. M. Weber called the attention of M. Pasteur to certain unsuccessful cases known to have occurred in vaccinations with his charbon-lympb, and requested him to take this opportunity of publicly reassuring the provincial veterinary autnorities, who at present are hesitating, and do not venture to go on recommending his vaccinations to the farmers.  M. Pasteur replied that certain " disasters '* were not properly chargeable to his charbon- vaccine, but to the faulty way in which it had been applied. He admitted that the lymph had come from his manufactory, and that his lymphs or vaccines get weaker by keeping ; and in these disasters the first or protective lymph must have been too weak to prevent the sheep from being killed by the subsequent inoculation. Possibly both inoculations were unreliable. Some vaccinated sheep had died a month or two after the operation, it had become necessary to manu- facture new vaccine lymphs, which had caused delays and misfortunes; but the improved lymphs are equal to the original idsues. Badly vaccinated flocks ought to be re-vaccinated with the improved lymph, which, for such purpose, will be supplied without charge. They ought, however, to recognise calmly such disasters as have come to light. Though they may weigh heavily on individuals, they are comparatively few when compared with the great number of animals vaccinated..   M. Pasteur bus prepared tables which show that a levy of 10 centimes on eacb Taccinated sbeep would form a fund sufficient to repay the full value of the animals killed by vaccination or subsequent distemper.  In the Journal Maritime of Cette we read : - The delicious proposal of an Insurance Company against the risks and impotence of his protective vaccine is surely a trait of genius of which M. Pasteur alone is capable. Such are the "astounding successes" which have seduced the Budget Committee of the French Chambers into repeating the national grant to M. Pasteur to enable him to prosecute his researches and the sale of his secret remedies.   SWEDISH STATISTICS.  With regard to the statement of Mr. Dennis de Berdt Hovell, F.R.C.S., in the Times of Sept. 7, that in Sweden the effect of authoritative vaccination was to reduce an average of mortality from smallpox for twenty years from 12,000 to 11," I beg to make the following observations : -  According to our official statistics, the average mortality from smallpox for the twenty years preceding compulsory vaccination was not 12,000, out 2,303, and for the twenty years following not 11, but 460. The number 12,000 (more exactly 12,032) refers to the single year 1800, and the number 11 to the single year 1822.  Ever since the middle of the eighteenth century (our statistics do not go further back) there has existed a never-broken periodicity of smallpox epidemics, each period comprising five to six years at one time, and about eight years or more on the average at another time, the mortality in each period having its years of maximum and minimum, Its decrease and increase. The number 12,000 (12,032) corresponds to the year of maximum of one period, the number 11 to the year of mini- mum of another period. I am afraid a similar error (that of comparing maxima with minima) has more than once been committed in discussions about vaccination.  smallpox mortality was rapidly decreasing before the enactment of compulsory vaccination, and has since been slowly increasing, as is seen below : -  . Years before Average annual small  compulsion, pox mortAlitj.  1756-1776 6,480*  1770-1795 4,617  1706-1816 2,303  After compulsion.  1816-1836 460  1836-1856 677  1856-1876 1,031  If the increase of population be taken into account, the proportions will be somewhat changed I but the main result will be unaltered.  When I say before and after compulsion, I only mean to indicate an epoch.  P. A. SlLJESTBOM.  * This number has, to a certain extent, been obtained by calculation, bat I consider it rather too low than too high.   COST OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT BOARD.  {For the Year Ending March 31, 1883.)  Medical officer £1,200  Assistant medical officer 1,000  Two inspectors at £800 each 1,600  One inspector 700  Six inspectors £600 to £600 each 3,620  Auxiliary scientific investigations concerning the causes and processes of  disease 1,900  Assistant vaccine inspector 400  Two vaccinators £160 each 300  Director of animal vaccine lymph station 400  Assistant to director 160  Two attendants £76 and £26 100  Purchase of lymph, ivory points, tubes,  and other apparatus, &c 900  Supply of calves 300  Keep of calves and incidental expenses. . 260  Public vaccinators (awards) 16,800  (30 & 31 Vict., c. 34, s. 6.)  Postage of vaccination certificates. 2,600  Travelling expenses 2,800  £33,820  Extracted from the Civil Service Estimates ordered by the House of Commons to be printed February 17, 1882. Wm. Young.  smallPOX IN THE WEST INDIES.  It is one of the common places of the advocates of vaccination that the Spaniards introduced smallpox to the West Indies, and that the disease swept off the natives wholesale. In such a matter, we must resort to contemporary testi- mony, and if there is no contemporary testimony, we may dismiss assertion with indifference. But, referring to contemporary testimony, the evidence distinctly contradicts the popular legend.  smallpox  was a disease of the Indians from which the Spaniards were exempt. To Mr. T. H. Moore we are indebted for the following passage, translated into English for the first time from Herrera's " History of the Spanish Conquests in the West Indies, a.d. 1618": -  " The Jeronimite Fathers carrying into effect their design of inducing the Indians to live in settlements, so that like men they should better acquire Christian and civilised habits, caused thirty villages to be built, and large quantities of yams planted for their sustenance ; and provided churches with ornaments and what else was requisite for the worship of God ; but the smallpox, a disease of which we have already made mention, interfered with these plans. Many Indians perished ; for as the climate is sultry, and the disease pure fire, when it was breaking out upon them, they followed their custom of bathing in the rivers, plunging into water for relief from their anguish, and so shutting up the eruption in their bodies, they died immediately.  <' Many have said the disease was from Gastille, and that it was caught by the natives from their intercourse with the Castillians ; but others who have investigated among the Indians af&rm that smallpox was indigenous, with outbreaks at   .certain periods, alike in the islands and on the mainland. If the disease had been brought from Gastille, it would have attacked the Castillians ; but neither then nor afterwards has it attacked any of them."   AN ODD SORT OF ARGUMENT.  Mr. Jacob Bright, apeakiDg in fayour of the Permissive Bill at a meeting of the United King- dom Alliance at Ashton-under-Lyne on Oct. 16, observed : -  " We find that Parliament interferes with liberty in the most extreme way in cases where it sup- poses that it can by so doing confer a g^eat national advantage. I could give you cases, but I will name only one. It is a conspicuous case, be- cause of the public agitation upon the question. I refer to the question of compulsory vaccination. (Applause.) We fine men again and again, we send them to prison, because they refuse to put into the veins of their children what some of them believe to be highly dangerous - (hear, hear) - something which we know in some cases produces disease, which we know in some cases causes death. (Hear, hear.) Well, Parliament does this on the ground that, though there may be some mischief, yet a general good is conferred. But I contend that the interference with liberty in such a case is ten-fold greater. (Applause.)"  It may be liberty to fine their children public-houses for Mr. Jacob temperance, publicans to leads to.   a tenfold greater interference with and imprison parents for protecting from vaccination than to shut up ; but it is an odd sort of argument Bright to advance for compulsory It ought, however, to lead some see what medical compulsion   Gainsborough Anti-Vaccination League. - The anniversary of the above League was hold on Oct. 20. A ^resolution condemning compulsory vaccination as cruel and despotic was unanimously passed. A petition to Parliament, praying for the unconditional and immediate repeal of the law, was also adopted. A letter was read from Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., congratulating the anti-vaccinators of Gainsborough and the country generally on the rapid strides their movement was making, and urging all to let their watchword be, ** Vaccinate no child, pay no fine, and vote for no candidate for Imperial or local government who will not pledge himself to vote for the repeal of the Compulsory Vaccination Acts.''  Who Yield to Infection ? - We would suggest that as regards infection, there are two classes of persons - ^the sensitive and non-sensitive, and that what will prejudicially influence the one, the other may be exposed to with impunity. Most persons subject to psychical and aural influences, are not positive intellectualists ; they make no public record of their experiences, and hence their testi- mony is lost to science. On the other hand, the intellectualist is constitutionally a non-sensitive; he makes the greatest noise in the world, and his view of things is made to do duty for the collective experiences of humanity. In this, as in other matters, how true is the saying, " One half of the world does not know how the other half lives." - The Medium, Oct. 20.   RESISTANCE THE PRICE OF VICTORY.  The recent vaccine prosecutions in London, Leicester, Bedford, and Gloucester indicate on the part of the Bench a somewhat less intolerant attitude toward the persistent and unwavering objectors to vaccination, who are prepared to undergo the extreme legal punishment, rather than incur the positive risks attending vaccination. Magistrates are now advising anti-vaccinators to obey the law, and then agitate for its repeal. It must be allowed that to disobey the law is a serious matter, and it is reasonably argued that if one law may be broken, why not all laws, which would reduce civilisation to anarchy? There are, however, exceptions to every rule, and I venture to submit that vaccination is one of these exceptions. Lord Brougham said there is no tyranny so great as that which is committed in the name of the law, and one of our greatest publicists, referring to the Vaccination Acts, says, '^ It may sometimes become the part of a noble heroism to brave the law, and accept all risks.'' The evils of vaccination can no longer be denied, and it has been pertinently asked, '^ Has the State a right to choose for the child whether it shall take the risk of smallpox or syphilis F " What attention would Parliament be likely to afford Mr. P. A. Taylor, if the laws which he so justly arraigns met with universal acceptance? A general obedience would be triumphantly and successfully urged as proof of the belief in the beneficence of vaccination. History shows that unjust laws are never revealed until resisted, and the resistance must be very strong indeed to be effectual, where, as in the Vaccination Acts, medical practice and powerful vested interests in the shape of an enormous staff of paid .officials block the way. It was only by re&istance that the Quakers obtained exemption from taking oaths, the Dissenters from the payment of Church rates, and the Jews from their Parliamentary disabilities. No legislation would be influenced for a moment by the consciences that obeyed first and protested afterwards. This vaccination law, which treats three thousand conscientious men and women as criminals every year, and which coerces millions into the adoption of an operation repugnant to their judgments and instincts, is entitled to the same obedience that William Lloyd Garrison, Abby Kelly Foster, Wendell Phillips, Lucretia Mott, Theodore Parker, and otner noble men and women in America gave to the tyrannical Fugitive Slave Law of that country during the rSgime of the Slayocracy twenty-five years ago.  William Tebb.   Hkavt Costs. - ^At the Sheriffs' Summary Court, Edinburgh, on Oct. 19, Mr. W. E. Snell, Mrs. Greig, and Mr. Duncan Napier were summoned for refusing to allow their children to be vaccinated; and each was fined Ss. and 23s. 8d. costs, with the alternative of three days' imprisonment. How these costs in the Scottish Courts are made up, we should like to know. Costs in London are usrially limited to 48. In Mrs. Greig's case, an appeal was intimated, hers being a second prosecution an unusual proceeding in Scotland..   AMERICAN CREDULITY AND DOCILITY.  The town of Paterson, New Jersey, has receotly been yisited by  smallpox , and the way in wluch the authorities struggle with it is simply heroic, considering the difficulties they have to meet. First, the Board of Education wanted to open the schools, and had to be suppressed. Then the Baptist Sunday-schools revolted, and the city physician had to prohibit their opening. About the churches there was great debate, their closing being left to the sanitary feeling of the worshippers. Then the distressing way the patients insisted on going out visiting had to be put down, and they were sentenced to carbolic acid, fine, and imprisonment. Two doctors were at once set to work in the City Hall to vaccinate every one gratis; they managed about 700 or 800 a-day. After being vaccinated, the inhabitants were sent out to dry, and whole bands of school-girls were to be seen promenading with bared arms ; otherwise the streets were deserted. One street had to be barricaded at both ends, and no one allowed in or out, owing to the recklessness of the inhabitants. The doctors think they have the disease in hand ; but large wooden pest-houses are being constructed to hold future cases, connected with the city by telephone. - Pall Mall Oazette^ Sept. 26. Why did not these poor afflicted Patersonians send for Dr. Martin, of Boston ? He told the British Medical Association at Ryde last year that the custom in America was to send for him or his son whenever smallpox broke out, with orders at once to vaccinate the entire population, with the result that they completely stopped epidemics in a week. Can it be that the Patersonians have never heard of the Boston magician and his miraculous son ?   THE REVOLT IN LEICESTER.  A LAROE and enthusiastic meeting was held in the open air at Ldicdster, on Oct. 4, with Mr. J. Leeson in the chair, who opened the proceedings with a few remarks in deprecation of compulsory vaccination. The following resolution was then moved by Mr. J. T. Biggs :-  ** That this meeting is of opinion that the Compulsory Vaccination Acts, which trespass upon parental authority, spread disease, and make good health a crime punishable by fine, distraint, or imprisonment, are a disgrace to Parliament and to England. The meeting is further of opinion that it is the duty of every person having a voice in the election of members for the local or Imperial Parliaments, that they should vote only for those candidates who are in favour of the repeal of the unconstitutional Acts.''  Among other remarks, Mr. Biggs referred to the unjust manner in which distraints were made for fines imposed for non-compliance with the law. In one case a young married couple had between £20 and £30 worth of goods seized to pay off a penalty of some £2 or £3, and not a penny was returned to them ! Such acts were enough to transform law-abiding citizens info rebels. Their respected Member, Mr. P. A. Taylor, was at one time a believer in vaccination, and favourable to compulsion ; but when he seriously studied the question, he found reason to change his opinion, and courageously avowed his conversion ; and he has gone on to give the opposition to vaccination his hearty support. During the preceding month 109 people were fined in Leicester because they would   not allow their children to be vaccinated. (Shame.) These fines were robberies - cruel robberies. They were outrages on the consciences of parents who held that vaccination subjected their children to the risk of disease, and even of death. Their magistrates refused to reduce the fines, although the amount lay within their discretion. The law, moreover, was most inequitable ; for the fines that were trivial to the rich were serious, and sometimes crushing, exactions to the poor.  Mr. Amos Booth, in seconding the resolution, said he had only to refer to the case of Mr. Burton, of Brook Street, who was now in a criminars cell because he refused to pay a fine, to justify him in protesting against a law which invaded their homes and violated their parental authority. Last year, 1,000 residents in Leicester had gone before the magistrates and defied the law ; and, at the rate of the present prosecutions, there would be double that number for 1882. He hoped they would all show their sympathy for the brave ilien who endured the spoiling of their goods for the sake of their children. What vaccination was had been made plain at Norwich. Much against the wish of the Local Government Board, an inquiry had been instituted under pressure from Mr. P. A. Taylor. The sum and substance of the investigation was that with unexceptionable vaccination, with lymph of perfect purity, four out of nine children had been slain, and the remaining five made seriously ill. (Shame.) If vaccination were beneficial, why should a law be required to enforce it ? He strenuously urged them to make no compromise with the wicked and dangerous Acts. Let their resistance be determined and unyielding. If they only went on multiplying their opposition, they would soon have so many distraints that it would be necessaiy to order a batch of auctioneers from America. In conclasion, Mr. Booth begged them to support candidates for neither the Board of Guardians, for the Town Council, nor for Parliament who did not pledge themselves unreservedly to oppose the Vaccination Acts.  On the motion of Mr. J. Potter it was moved : -  " That as the Compulsory Vaccination Acts have failed to prevent or mitigate smallpox, and, as the Norwich inquiry clearly proves, bring untold misery into the homes of the people, it is desirable that all should combine to obtain the repeal of the Acts. This meeting, therefore, urges firm resistance to the superstitious medical rite, and advises refusals to pay any fines imposed by the magis- trates, believing that no compromise is the shortest route to repeal."  The resolutions were carried with acclamation, Conservatives uniting with Liberals in their support.   Iceland. - In an appeal by Mr. William Morris on behalf of the Icelanders, threatened with famine in consequence of various disasters, he observes : - ** Lastly, the measles, which has not been in Iceland for thirty-six years, and which, when falling on a people not used to it, is a deadly and not a trivial disease, has attacked Reykjavik, where nearly half the people are down with it, and many have died, and it is now spreading over the island.'* - Measles absent from Iceland for thirty- six years ! Suppose instead of measles it had been smallpox, would not the exemption in every year up to the thirty-sixth have been ascribed to vaccination?   ^"^   He who knowi onlj hu own ride of the cise, knows little of th*t.-^. Stuisy Mill. Prejudice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.- Aubsbt Db Ybbb.   t^te Ifatcittatimt JnqmrEr   jlncL df£e.aLtk I^euleuL.   Vol. IV., No. 45.]   DECEMBER, 1882.   [Price Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.   The Report of the Inspectors on the Deaths and Injuries caused by Vaccination at Norwich has been published, and we have little to complain of in the conclusions arrived at by Mr. Henley and Dr. Airy. They show themselves fair and candid according to their lights. They are persuaded of the general innocence of vaccination, qualified with the admission that, '' It is no new discovery that there is a certain risk attending vaccination, but that risk is shown to be very small.'' As to the smallness of the risk, we dissent. People rarely see what they do not look for, and still less, what they do not wish to see ; or which, if seen, they would think it mis- chievous or wicked to mention. We have paid attention to the matter; we have widely inquired, and we know that the risks attendant on vaccination are numerous and serious; and we know, too, that it is the habit of medical men to ascribe the evil consequences of vaccination to secondary causes. We do not say that this is done with dishonest intent; but we do say that their prejudices are firmly set against the recognition of the truth. Indeed, this Norwich afiPair illustrates our contention. Two of the children slain by vaccination were certified as having died of erysipelas, and another victim had her death set down to bronchitb ! How- ever shocking, there is nothing singular about such cases. We hear of them wherever we turn, and from all parts of the country. Sir Joseph W. Pease, speaking in the House of Commons, said, " Children are killed wholesale by vaccination"; whilst their deaths are referred wholesale to other causes. Indeed a London coroner maintained : '' The law does not recog^ nise vaccination as a cause of death,'' and stoutly refused to receive the verdict of a jury to that effect. Again the Norwich affair illustrates the practice of hushing-up. Inquiry was neither undertaken spontaneously nor with good grace by the Local Government Board. It was compelled by our friend Mr. R. Lee Bliss, with the assistance of Daylight f a lively Norwich weekly. But   for the persistency of Mr. BUss the little victims would have been forgotten, with their false certificates over their graves; whilst those who testified to the true cause of their deaths would have been disposed of in the terms considered ap- propriate to the fools without faith in the immortal Jenner. Nay more : but for the pressure exercised by Mr. P. A. Taylor, the inquiry would have been privately conducted, with the residt, no doubt, that vaccination would have been vindicated, and the charges brought against it swept aside as the fruit of ignorance and malice. We repeat, there was nothing uncommon about this Norwich tragedy - nothing whatever. What was uncommon was the open and thorough investigation ; and, having made a beginning, we shall, as opportunity offers, have such investigations repeated. We have made for ourselves a position and a precedent which shall not be lost.   '' This will never do," said Dr. Buchanan, the head of the Medical Department of the Local Government Board, when he read the report of Mr. Henley and Dr. Airy. Accustomed to the rough and ready service of such henchmen as Dr. Stevens and Dr. Ballard, who can drag vaccination out of any conceivable mess, a report that left the benign rite under reproach was intolerable. He therefore determined to try what he could do himself. At any cost the stigma must be wiped off, and, after consideration, it was resolved to make of Dr. Guy a sacrifice. He used ivory points ; he did not cleanse them sufii- ciently ; and the erysipelas that resulted was due to corrupt matter upon them. The slovenliness of Dr. Guy was the cause of all the mischief. Dr. Buchanan may be right ; who knows? But, to say the least, his charge is one of constructive treason. There is no proof that the points used by Dr. Guy were foul; indeed, the evidence runs to the contrary; and if he was a slatternly operator, how did it come to pass that, after inspection, he was twice rewarded, by advice of Dr. Buchanan's department, for the excellence of his workPTHE VACOTNTATION INQUIRER   Dr. Buchanan mayplead that necesdtjis laid upon him to clear vaccination from reproach ; but how far Dr. Guy may consent to be victimised, even for so good a cause, remains to be seen. Sometimes when an official yields himself up as a propitiation, and holds his tongue, his forbearance is not forgotten ; but however that may be arranged, it is idle for Dr. Buchanan to endeavour to hide the significance of the facts by so reckless a manoeuvre. Let us repeat, that but for the exposure effected by Mr. Bliss, and supported, enforced, and conducted at our expense, there would never have been any inquiry at Norwich, whilst Dr. Guy would have gone on operating as hitherto, rewarded at suitable intervals for the perfection of his work. We have no reason to regret the issue of Dr. Buchanan's '' Memorandum/' for it sets the seal of ignominy upon his office and admimstration.   The discussion of the Report in the press has been far from satisfactory. Many of the leading newspapers have passed it over in silence. It is the fashion to believe in vaccination, and to hold those in scorn who do not ; but the knowledge requisite for its appredation is far from common. The medical editor of the TYmes deplores the mishap, and suggests that similar misadventures may be most effectually provided against by raising the pay and status of public vaccinators ; an opinion the profession will heartily endorse. An error we observe almost everywhere is the assumption that erysipelas is an accident of vaccination instead of being of its essence. Mr. Simon says that whoever would understand vaccination aright must study that masterpiece of medical induction, Jenner's Inquiry, Referring to it, we find erysipelas set forth as the note of effective vaccination ; and that the use of spontaneous cowpox is condemned on the ground that no erysipelas attends it. Dr. Martin, of Boston, who, in contempt of Jenner, professes to employ the said spontaneous cowpox, maintains that "erysipelas is the invariable concomitant of arm-to-arm vaccination." Wherefore, it may be said that erysipelas is deli- berately incurred in vaccination, and that it is a matter of circumstance whether the disease extends to serious or fatal issues. The considerations opened by the Norwich Inquiry are wide and various, and we are pleased to hear that Mr. W. J. Collins, M.B., who bore an active part in the inquiry, will review the Report at the next Conference of the London Society, on Monday, December 18, 7.30 o'clock, at 114, Victoria Street, Westminster.   If we could detach our minds from the gravity of the issue, it would not be difficult to find amusement in the little comedy enacted in the name of Dodson. Of course, it is understood that when Mr. Dodson answers a medical question in the House of Commons, he does not do so out of his own knowledge. The answer is provided for him, probably by Dr. Buchanan, of the Medical Department of the Local Government Board. Thus we take his reply concerning what is euphemistically styled the Vaccine Disas- ter in Alters as another attempt by interested parties to baffle and avert public attention from a frightful scandal. When the saying of M. Ricord is borne in miud : -  " The obvious fact is, that if ever the trans- mission of syphilis with vaccine is clearly demonstrated, vaccination must be altogether discontinued - "  It is easy to see how those whose craft is vaccination will spare no pains to have so conclusive a demonstration as that in Algiers hushed up or discredited. The facts are well known to the French medical authorities, and no doubt exists as to their validity at Whitehall. What, then, do we want? We are anxious to secure the official and worldwide confession of the facts, first in France, and then in England ; but precisely what we wish is precisely what we shall not get - if by any means we can be frustrated. The game is perfectly understood. We know that they know, and they know that we know, and we know that they know that we know. We daresay we shall fail in obtaining the satisfaction for which we are in quest; and perhaps it is as unreasonable to expect the truth under the circumstances as it would be from respondents in the Divorce Court. Nevertheless it is worth trying; and when the realities of vaccination are at last unveiled and recognised, judgment will be the more severe when such prevarication as Mr. Dodson is required to execute is had in remembrance.   Dr Gbobob Wyld has resumed '* Calf-lymphing " in the TimeSj and it is hard to thuik of his innocence without commiseration. He says : -  "For three years I gave nearljr my whole time towards producing and distributing cidf- lymph, and so important was the impression produced on the public, that an Act was passed making calf -vaccination a branch of the public service. Thereon I gladly retired from a most laborious and, in a pecuniary sense, thankless  Swition; but I did so in the faith that thtf overnment would do its utmost to encourage this perfect lymph. The result has been the reverse of my expectations, and the fact is scarcely   I   .conoeiyable that the quantity of calf-lymph sent out by the Government last year did not exceed the quantity I distributed every few weeks.''  They took it out of his hands to burke it, and he did not know ! We knew. It was perfectly plain that if the Government ran first and second class Vaccination, they would play havoc vnth public faith in the rite, and it was certain that a richly-endowed craft was not likely to place their credit in jeopardy for such a whimsey as that of Dr. Wyld. Stilli the whimsey was dangerous ; its advocates were clamorous and influential; and it was resolved " to take it over/' to damp enthusiasm with delay, and at a convenient season find a pretext for smothering the nuisance. This, the cruel reality, be^ns to reveal itself even to Br. Wyld's guilelessness. He is the veritable Don Quixote of calf-lymph, untiring in the exposition of its incredible virtues. As we hear him, we are reminded of that scene where Sancho Panza, anxious to dress his master's bleeding ear, is told of the balsam of Fierabras, which he who possesses need not fear death or any wound. '' When thou seest me in some battle cleft asunder, take up fair and softly that part of my body which shall fall to the ground, and with the greatest nicety place it upon the other half that shall remain in the saddle, taking special care that they shall tally exactly. Then shalt thou give me two draughts only of the balsam aforesaid, and instantly thou wilt see me become sounder than an apple." '* If this be so," said Sancho, '^ I should be glad to know whether the making of it will cost much? '' ** For less than three reals thou mayest make nine pints," answered Don Quixote. '' Sinner that I am ! " exclaimed Sancho, " why does your worship delay making it? " *^ Peace, friend," answered Don Quixote ; *' for I intend to teach thee greater secrets, and to do thee greater kindnesses ; but at present, let us set about the cure, for my ear pains me more than I could wish."   Dr Warlomont, of Brussels, is a much shrewder practitioner. He works calf-lymph, and thrives on calf-lymph. He started the business, and did not weakly make it over to the Government. On the contrary, he got the Government to subsidise Mm, and for fourteen years drove his trade in the name of Belgium. Professional jealousy was, however, aroused, and recentiy Warlomont has been disestablished and disendowed. Undiscouraged, he has shown himself superior to disaster. He has brought out a lymph of unrivalled excellence, the mystery of which he reserves for his own advantage. Nor   does he confine his trade to Belgium, but touts for custom in the British MedicalJoumal, offering what he calls his ^' emulsion " in tubes at 2s. each, and his '' pomade " in pots at 5s., 10s., and 208. each. Magnificent is this trading in regions where by all the rules of etiquette trade is for- bidden. It is practice beyond that of Barnum, and proves afresh the truth of the observation, " You may do anything, if only you know how to do it." Moreover, there is a new instrument^ Warlomont's Vaccinateur Trephine, also advertised in the name of science and philanthropy, consisting of a circular blade in a sheath, which receives a rotary motion by the action of an internal spring, for making suitable incisions for the reception of the emulsion or the pomade. Dr. Wyld denounces humanised virus; Dr. Warlomont is too clever for that. His tack is to excite no needless offence. He allows the inferiority of human to animal virus, but admits its usefulness. Dr. Wyld avers that only calf-lymph affords a perfect protection from smallpox : Dr. Warlomont is not such a goose. Calf-lymph, he says, is protective, but may not be absolutely protective. Whoever would enjoy unquestionable immunity from smallpox must be what he calls "vaccinised " - that is, be inoculated with emulsion or pomade over and over again, until the operation ceases to have any effect. Then the poor wretch may be taken as warranted against smallpox - tuitil the effect of the vaccinisation has worn off ; for Dr. Warlomont philosophically holds that whoever can be vaccinated can take smallpox. On these terms it is easy to see how failure is never likely to discomfit the Belgian Autolycus, and that he may long live to cry : -  Come, buy of me, come ; come, buy, come, buy ; Buy, lada, or else your lasses cry : Come, buy.   At the Edinburgh election, both the candidates, both Liberals, avowed themselves impassioned compulsory vaccinators. Mr. Waddy was espe- cially vehement, protesting, like Flaming Firebrand Bompas himself, against '* the alleged right of a parent to murder his child by neglecting it." Such furious talk is invariably significant of igno- rance ; a man who had any positive knowledge of smallpox or of vaccination would never express himself thus. What is supposed to be correct is commonly overdone by those who have not in themselves the standard of correctness. Mr. Waddy forgets, or perhaps does not know, that what he calls the right of a parent to murder his child by neglecting its vaccination is conceded by the law, and conceded on the most odious terms, namely, on payment of a fine, or a series of fines which penalty is of little account to a parent in comfortable circumstances, but is most oppressive to the poor. Contemporary Liberalism is a droll article, and in many of its representatives reproduces the character of those of old, who garnished the tombs of dead prophets and maltreated those who were alive. If they were not labelled otherwise, we should not be able to distinguish some of our new Radicals from the worst of old Tories. As for Mr. Waddy, we shall for the present give him the benefit of his ignorance, not being without hope that when he has discovered the nature of his brief, he will drop it, and let us have words of truth and soberness from himself.   Mr. Pearson Hill, writing in the Lancet of Nov. 11, observes: -  " What rule can have more authority than an Act of Parliament? Yet the very existence of smallpox Hospitals is due to the fact that the Compulsory Vaccination Acts are so often disobeyed."  Which is to say that smallpox Hospitals are required and provided for those who refuse to be Taccinated. There was recently a smallpox scare in Natal, and the editor of a Natal news- paper, wishing to excite prejudice against Arch- deacon CoUey and others who denounced vaccination, said they were the same people who were working to bring back Cetewayo- the restoration of Cetewayo being the charge most likely to damage them in the colony. With the like motive Mr. Marks Marson assured a Committee of the House of Commons that he had observed it was fathers (not mothers) who objected to vaccination, in order that smallpox might kill of! their children, leaving them with the fewer to work for ! And now Mr. Pearson Hill says that "the very existence of smallpox Hospitals is due to the fact that the Compulsory Vaccination Acts are so frequentiy disobeyed I " It is needless to remark that Mr. Pearson Hill, in his sober judgment, no more believes what he says than did the Natal editor or Mr. Marks Marson. He simply wished to gratify the readers of th(c) Lancet with a dash of malice, and there it is I We daresay he knows as well as we do that the vast majority of 'patients in every smallpox Hospital are vaccinated and re-vaccinated. In Marson's report of the Highgate Hospital for 1871 we read : -  " Of the 050 cases of smallpox, 870, or 91-6 per cent., had been vaccinated."  And in the Lancet itself, Aug. 27, 1881, in the report of the Bromley Hospital, it is said :-  " There were 43 cases treated between April 25 and June 29. Of confluent smallpox, there were   16 cases; of diEcrete, 14; of modified, 13. All the cases had been vaccinated - 3 re-vaccinated."  And yet, says Mr. Pearson Hill, the unvaccinated are the cause of the very existence of  smallpox  Hospitals !  Dr. Georqe MacDonald, in a volume of essays just published, entitled '^ Orts," lends his sanction to the common Jennerian myth. He observes : -  '' Jenner*8 victory over the smallpox gives Dr. Russell an opportunity of showing in a strong instance that the best discoveries for delivering mankind from those ills even of which they arc most sensible have been received with derision, with more than bare unbelief.*'  Dr. MacDonald, who loves and lauds accuracy, should know that this statement is completely at variance with fact. Many are the sorrows of discoverers, and long and hard are their struggles for recognition; but with such severity Jenner had no acquuntance. His discovery was received by the world with instant and almost universal acclamation. Derision and unbelief followed, as in course of time the fallacy of his various promises was exposed. The true discoverer usually starts with trouble and ends with triumph. Jenner reversed the process. He started with triumph and ended with trouble. ^' Never,*' said he, in his last days-" never was I involved in so many perplexities." The case, we say to Dr. Mac- Donald and others who repeat the fable, is not one for argument, but correction.   The Third Congress of the International Anti- Vaccination League will be held in Berlin in the course of February - probably about the middle of the month. The hon. secretary having reported this arrangement to the committee of the London Society : -  '*It was resolved, that recognising the great importance of the International Congress, we agree to send representatives to Berlin, and to promote as far as possible the success of the assembly ; and we further express the hope that anti-vaccinators throughout the Continent, the Dominion of Canada, the United States, Aus- tralia, and South Africa, and wherever vaccination is enforced, directiy or indirectiy, will in like manner co-operate."  Considering how much was achieved by the Congresses held in Paris and Cologne, there is good cause for sparing no pains in organising a larger gathering in Berlin. Faith is strengthened, energy renewed, and plans of propagandism devised at these international councils. We trust there may be a full English representation present, and that our friends in Germany may leam from   tbem how fully we appreciate the excellence of their work. There, as here, the chief opposition to be oTercome is the apathy in which custom stands fortified.   THE VACCINE DISASTER IN ALGIERS.  Mb. C. H. Hopwood gave notice in the House of Commons, on October 27, that he would " ask the President to the Local Goyernment Board whether he has received further and complete information, through the Foreign Office, from the French Government^ on the subject of the infection of 68 soldiers of the 4th Zouave Regiment, to whom it is alleged that syphilis was communicated by vaccination with matter from Arab children."  Mr. Dodson, on Nov. 1, replied as follows : - '* My answer to the question is that we have not succeeded in obtaining any fresh information upon the subject, and it does not appear that the French Government have any in their possession. With regard to the alleged fact that the disease referred to was communicated by vaccine matter, I am advised that the statement that two children served as vaccinifers for 280 men, and that 58 of these men were operated upon by lymph taken from one single child, is opposed to all experience in vaccination. So far from admitting the fact that this disease was communicated by vaccine matter, I cannot entertain the slightest doubt that such was not the case, more especially as it is expressly mentioned that the children from whom the lymph was said to have been taken were in excellent health."  In the Times of Nov. 9 appeared the following letter from Mr. William Tebb : -  ** As Mr. Hopwood*s question in the House of Commons has again revived public interest in the tragic occurrence in Algiers, may I venture briefly to recall the facts ? The subjoined parti- culars were furnished by Dr. Desjardins, of Algiers, to La Science Libre, after a most careful investigation into the circumstances and a personal medical examination of the infected youths.  '^ On December 30, 1880, the young soldiers of the garrison of Algiers who had not already been vaccinated were conducted to the Dey Hospital to be vaccinated, in accordance with the military regulations. Two army surgeons operated. The vaccine matter was extracted from a couple of children under two months old, apparentiy in excellent health, and in whom the lymph appeared to be equally genuine and normal. Those vaccinated from one of the children presented no special incident, but the 58 soldiers vaccinated from the Spanish infant developed in a few weeks the characteristics of an infection which could not be mistaken - all were attacked with syphilis. The marks on the arm were disquieting, and the ulcerations were so threatening that the soldiers were, some ten weeks after the operation, sent to hospital. In a month all except six were dismissed, but they were soon compelled to return; syphilis had affected their constitution. Some had ulcers for four or five months ; one had not recovered in the eighth month ; others had affections of the lips, tongue, or palate. Some showed discoloration of   the skin, some had violent headache, and afi^ections of the teeth and gums and of the joints presented themselves to my observation, in addition to the usual symptoms of this dangerous and disgusting malady. I also noticed decay of the hair, eyebrows, and lashes. Need it surprise us that soldiers thus treated hy State medical regulations fail to prove that they are each equal to a dozen of their vigorous Arab foes, the redoubtable Bou- Amema?  Then follow the names and regimental numbers of the unfortunate soldiers who have been obliged to leave the service without appeal or compensation. Further details have been published in the Journal d^Hygikne of Paris, for Aug. 25, 1881, and March 30 last, and several other Paris journals ; also in La France Miridionale of Nice, for July 8, 1882, and two Algerian journals, Le Petit Colon and L'Akhbar, of Aug. 1, 1881. Ac- cording to the Journal d^Ifygihie of March 30 last, an eminent deputy, the Baron Larrey, having heard the particulars of this vaccine disaster, desired to interpellate the Chamber of Deputies, but General Farre, the then Minister of War, begged him to await the result of certain investigations then pending, which admitted the existence of the painful disaster. Since then the editor, Dr. de Pietra Santa, says that while the facts have never been officiidly denied, the Government have preserved a profound silence concerning the afi^air. It is to be observed that when the question was previously put in the House of Commons by Mr. Hopwood in June last, Mr. Dodson said that a reply to his inquiries had been received from the French Government by the English Embassy in Paris ; but the information was incomplete. It appears, therefore, that a certain amount of information is already in possession of the Local Government Board *, and having regard to the painful anxiety existing in the public mind on this subject of vaccination (which the Lancet said, four vears ago, nothing but the appointment of a Koyal Commission would allay), it ought not in the interests of the public health and public safety to be longer withheld.  William Tebb.  Devonshire Club, Nov. 7.  In the Echo of Nov. 9, Mr. Collins wrote as follows: -  The answer vouchsafed by Mr. Dodson to Mr. Hop wood's question on the Vaccine Disaster in Algiers was so thoroughly unsatisfactory and misleading, that I beg to adduce the following facts : -  Mr. Dodson, while regretting his inability to add further information (that previously extracted amounting to nil) took occasion to express his doubts as to the validity of the whole story, and this " more especially as it is expressly mentioned that the children from whom the lymph was taken were said to be in excellent health.^  Now, as Mr. Dodson admitted he was uninformed, it was, at any rate, rash to question the accuracy of the report, and the special reason which he assies is so contrary to wnat is known upon the subject, that it exhibits a lack of information on the part of his advisers which is truly extraordinary.   As to the validity of the report, I may say that I hare before me No. 21 of La Science Libre, which contains a fall and careful account of the symptoms in the 58 soldiers specially infected through vaccination ; to which is appended a list of the names, numbers, and nationalities of the men.  As to the assertion that a child apparently in excellent health is unlikely to be the means of conveying this disease to those vaccinated from it, I may say it is quite contrary to experience. So far from it being exceptional, it is in fact the rule in cases like this that the vaccinifer is healthy and robust in appearance, for the simple reason that a vaccinator would not select as vaccinifer a child which appeared to him unhealthy. In proof of this I may refer to Mr. Hutchinson's first two series of cases. In the first, ten young adults were infected with disease from one and the same vaccinifer. ''The infant had been seen by the public vaccinator, whose patient she was, and by the surgeon who borrowed her, and to them, to her own mother, and to those who were vaccinated from her she bore the aspect of excellent health. She was remarkably well grown, not in the least fretful, and had gone through the stages of her own vaccination perfectly well.'' But when two months later Mr. Hutchinson saw the child, he adds, "About the existence of constitutional syphilis in the infant at the date of my examination, there could not be any doubt." In the second series, in which nine children were infected constitutionally from one vaccinifer, the vaccinifer was a ''fine, healthy-looking child," and ''his mother stated that he was selected from amongst several others as being the most healthy present, and that his vaccination spots were very good ones." Mr. Hutchinson rightly suggested that, to avoid a repetition of such cases, the knowledge of their occurrence should be diffused among the profession - advice which has been studiously ignored by the Local Government Board. To an unbiased mind there cannot be the smallest doubt that arm-to-arm vaccination is fraught with grave, inherent, and unavoidable risks.  W. J. Collins, M.B., B.S., B.Sc. (Lond.).  St. Bartholomew's Hospital, Nov. 5.  In the Echo of Nov. 6, Mr. Dudgeon observed : - In reply to Mr. Hopwood's inljuiry, Mr. Dodson said " he was advised that the statement that two children served as vacdnifers for 280 men is so opposed to all experience of vaccination that it cannot possibly be accepted." The Officer of Health for Leicester, in his Annual Report for 1870, quotes the following statement from Professor Huxley's address at the meeting of the British Medical Association :-^'' A minute cut is made in the skin, and an infinitesimal quantity of vaccine matter is inserted into the wound. Within a certain time a vesicle appears in the place of the wound, and the fluid which distends this vesicle is vaccine matter, in quantity a hundred or a thousand fold that which was originally inserted."  Quomdon, Nov. 8. H. D. Dxtdgeon.  It is needless to add that no refutation of Mr. Tebb or Mr. Collins has been attempted" The   facts are beyond dispute, and the reply put into the mouth of Mr. Dodson is of the ordinary style of official equivocation.   FRENCH SOLDIERS.  At the Sanitary Congress Professor de Chaumont ascribed the immunity of the German army from smallpox (where vaccination is de rigwur) as compared with the French army to the laxer system of vaccination, deducing therefrom an argument in favour of compulsory vaccination. May I say that the Professor is seriously in error as to the fact? Although Dr. Liouville's Bill for compulsory vaccination has been withdrawn, owing to the strong opposition to it by Dr. Jules Guerin, Dr. Depaul, Dr. Hardy, the Baron Larrey, and other eminent members of the Academy of Medicine, vaccination in the French Army is now, and always has been, rigorously enforced. All French recruits are vaccinated by the military suigeon on joining the Army, and soldiers are re-vaccinated in times of smallpox epidemics.  The following quotation from the report of Dr. Oidtmann, Staff-Surgeon and Chief Physician to the Hospitals at Veraun and St. Quentin during the Franco-German War, shows the origin and development of the devastating epidemic to have been uniform with all simUar outbreaks in this country (as demonstrated by Dr. Southwood Smith, Mr. H. D. Dud^on, Mr. Edwin Chadwick, and others), viz., overcrowding, dirt, and pestilential atmosphere, and not want of vaccination : -  "In my numerous marches and halts in the campaigpi of 1870-71, I directed my particular attention to the health statistics. After the taking of Yerdun I noticed that the rooms in which the French hospital patients were miserably decimated during the bombardment were inexpressibly close and ill-smelling - breeding-places of smallpox poison. The only German physician of the garrison being unwell, it fell to my lot to root out these filthy lurking holes of pestilence. I was physician of the Garrison Staff at St. Quentin, and all the statistics of the French, German, and international hospitals for six weeks in succession passed through my hands. The enormous difference between the smallpox mortality of the two armies was caused by the crying neglect of hygienic precautions in the French Military Department, and by the excessive concentration of their system of stationary sick dep6ts, as opposed to the freshness of the hygienic arrangements of the German hospitals, and the ambulatory movements of their scattered troops. No more decisive proof can exist of the correctness of my theory - that the strength and spread of smallpox is both proportioned to and progressive with the fostering and shutting-in of the smallpox vapour - than these statistics of the Franco-German War."  Dr. Oidtmann adds that shortly before the outbreak of the War, the whole of the French Army was revaccinated. This general vaccination appeared rather to extend the disease than to protect from it. William Tbbb.  A KiMBBBLET paper (South Africa) says that a couple of surgeons in that town have received nearly £2,000 in fees for vaccination during the recent scare.   ARCHDEACON COLLET.  It is refreshing to read of the gallant resistance that Archdeacon Colley is offering to the infliction of compulsory vaccination upon Natal. In a long letter addressed hj him to the Natal Mercury, Oct. 11 , he says : -  " i do not wish to act the Irishman at Donny- Mr ook Fair, and trail my coat-tails on the ground, inyiting any gentleman to tread on them. But, conscious of the power of truth and right on our side, we do desire the hottest warfare that can be waged against our position as anti-compulsory leaguers. With courtesy let there be the freest discussion, and the truth will appear.  First, I would ask the profession to give us the pedigree of the lymph used. We hear much of adulteration in medicine, and I have yet to learn that either human or bovine virus is exempt from adulteration. Even if guaranteed as pure when made up in England, the question occurs, how long may it remain sweet? How many tubBS had Dr. to throw away as containing blood, and being otherwise unfit for use? Our contention, of course, is that none are fit for use ; but of the virus thought fit, what assurance can be given that it has not passed through scrofulous, syphilitic, or consumptive subjects ? Or, if it is bovine virus, how can we know that it is not from smallpox inoculated on the cow, a variety largely supplied to the faculty at home by Badcock, of Bnghton? As for the arm-to-arm system, it is so generally discredited that it would be killing dead men further to denounce it. The public now are awake to its ** ghastly risks," and will have none of it.  Apart from argument as to the merits or otherwise of vaccination, I protest as a man, a clergyman, and an Englishman, against having any opinion medical, or ecclesiastical, or what not, forced upon me. What shall be said of the recent suggestion made by Dr. A. Carpenter, '^I would give power to magistrates to separate the parent from the child, while the operation is performed in the justice's room, and as soon as the surgeon informed the magistrate that the child was vaccinated, I would let the parent go free ! " Further he says, having captured and vaccinated the little one by force, *' it would be necessary to take care of the child until the vesicles had completed their term." The father and mother are to ^ofree, while their treasure is being violated.  What do mothers in Natal think of such suggestions? Here we have the brutal nature of compulsory vaccination wrought to its logical conclusion.  When the attempt is made to compel me to have my boy inoculated, variolated, equinated, or vaccinated, 1 shall ask Which? I shall demand to know the pedigree of the virus. Is it from the human armP Then, with the approval of Sir Thomas Watson, M.D., and nearlv half the medical profession at home, and the whole of the Continental faculty, I shall decline to submit my child to its '' ghastly risks." If it is lymph from the calf, I shall want to know how the calf got it. If it is said to be from a case of spontaneous cowpox, then I shall answer, in the words of Jenner himself, that it is useless against smallp0X|   ''incapable of producing any specific effect ou the human constitution." Nay, more : Professor Simmonds, Principal of the Royal Veterinary College, questions the very existence of cowpox, saying, "In my experience among animals for forty years I have never seen a case of cowpox.' I should, therefore, be entitled to question the very purport of the summons. If my child is to be vaccinated, I am surely entitled to the assurance that the operation is vaccination. Tenner's prophylactic was not cowpox, but horse-grease cowpox - that is to say, grease from the horse converted into pox on the cow. Pointing to a greasy-heeled horse, Jenner said to his nephew, " There, that is the source of cowpox." Nor did he always care to pass the grease through the cow. He used it neat, and thanking a pupil for a supply of the equine virus, he acknowledged it as " the true and genuine life-preserving fluid."  Now, this precious elemont of life, as I am told, can be had in Natal in any quantity, ripe and strong. We need not, therefore, send to England for lymph. Indeed, a large export trade might be done in this, which Mayhew terms " filthy disease, a disgrace to all concerned, an abomination havinff no business in any decent stable, the smell of wnich is overpowering."  Is this to be introduced to Colonial veins? Nay, if the trade were not iniquitous, let it be turned into money. Jenner said he did not know what he should do if he had to renovate his virus, inasmuch as better grooming and cleaner stables had driven the grease away. Here in Natal, however, is the supply. Yonder in England is the demand. Fortunes in perspective 1 This then, the grease, " the source o! cowpox," " the true and genuine life-preserving fluid ^' is what we are bound to have; for, ac- cording to Jenner, any other virus is non-protective and delusive.  It is plain therefore that I shall be justified in demanding a true account of the origin of the virus wherewith my child is to be inoculated. I cannot be expected to incur " the ghastly risk " of which Sir Thomas Watson has warned us ; and I feel sure there are few in Natal who would not take their chance of smallpox rather than submit to the orthodox Jennerian prescription. In a word, vaccination is not one thing, but several things, and which no one in Natal knows. To attempt its enforcement therefore is as foolish as wickea. Thomas Colley.   " The Theosophist," a monthly journal' devoted to Oriental philosophy, art, and literature, conducted by H. P. Blavatsky, and published in Bombay, contains a kindly, notice of the VaccinatION Inquiseb in the number for September. It is said, " The subject-matter of this fearless little monthly is very interesting, and may be viewed by a bilious admirer of vaccination as ' a direct incitement to a breach of the law.' It does its level best to upset the illusions of orthodox medicine, and to expose the legalised quackery of its practitioners." Then follows a quotation from Mr. H. D. Dudgeon, showing how " fancies, under the name of science," are enforced under authority of first one foreign quack and then another; ab- surdity from abroad having a gpreater power for the conviction of fools than similar absurdity produced at home.   uo   .   THE MEDICAL CHECK IN LEICESTER ON NOVEMBER 1.  Fifty years ago our ancient Municipal Corpo- rations consisted of friendly coteries of local tradesmen, entitled to fill up vacancies in their number. As these bodies possessed great importance through their power to invest their adherents with the Parliamentary suffrage, they were centres of Whig or Tory parti zanship. It was fondly believed that Municipal Reform would effect a beneficial change, but national habits and tendencies are not so easily eradicated, and the munici- palities of the present day are gradually becoming as exclusive as those of old. They work in committees where no reporter is permitted to intrude, and the local press, where practicable, is largely made use of to Keep alive the holy flame of party animosity so dear and so useful to those in power. Hence it is that the cost of a contested municipal election in our large towns is so high. Circumstances have thus made it difficult for anti-vaccinators to make their full influence felt. Being a mixed body of Liberals and Conservatives, Churchmen and Dissenters, believers and agnostics, they are unequal to the old partv organisations until their numbers become well-nigh overwhelming.  In the elections just over at Leicester one ward only was contested. The two sitting members sought re-election. Their majoritv in 1870 was less than forty, and they at that time refused to give any pledge to the anti-vaccinators. And now, in the midst of the speech-making which adorns these local fights, the Conservative or independent candidates boldly stated that they '* dia not believe in forcing vaccination upon the people.** A new issue was thus suddenly thrust into the meUe ; and though it was still stoutly maintained that the struggle was strictly a party one, the usual policy of evading a pledge on the vaccination question was broKen through, and eight days uter the Conservative declaration, one of the Liberal candidates (a medical man) publicly stated that he was not prepared to sup- port the Acta which compelled parents to submit their children to the vaccine operation. A week later the remidning candidate expressed his wil- lingness to do his best to get magistrates to mitigate the vaccination fines ** very materially.'* Thus the four candidates presented themselves as opponents of compulsion. Meanwhile two uH" opposed candidates in a neighbouring ward (both of them Liberals) proclaimed themselves sup- porters of compulsion I This impressive distinction oetween opposed and unopposed candidates in the same Liberal camp has stamped itself indelibly on the popular mind, and the result of the ballot has placed the late members for East St. Mary's in a minority of 80 or 90.  The facts are gathered from the local press. The secresy of the ballot stands in the way of exact and lull knowledge of the operating causes, but the number of meaical men who, as is publicly stated, intended to place themselves on the Sanitary Committee of the Town Council has been reduced, and Lady Vaccinia has received a check.  A local Anti-Vaccination Sodety is now in process of formation, comprising influential   names. It will give cohesion and solidity to our cause. More promising times are near. We have had our difBculties. Rough and stony is the path to freedom ; but the pure winds of heaven cheer the associated wayfarers in the cause of honour, duty, and the high-souled patriotism which is not yet lost to the descendants of a noble race. H. D. Dudgeon.   COSTS IN EDINBURGH.  Wb observed last month that vaccination costs in Edinburgh were much heavier than in London, where they usually average 4^. For our information Mr. W. E. Snell has favoured us with particulars of the items in the bill against himself. They are as follows : -  Remuneration to the Inspector of Poor, the salaried officer of the parochial board : -  £ B. d.  For framing complaint 7 6  ,, copy , 10  " attendance in Court 5  Total of lawyer's fees exacted "^  by a gentleman who has no / 13 6  attorney's certificate )  Conrt dues - for complaint 2 6  " " trial 2 6  " " extract 10  " " bar officer  Officer's fee - for serving 16  ,, " mileage 8  £12 2   Statnnent respecting the Population of London , deaths by smallpox, ratio of smallpox deaths to population, and the probable extent of  vaccination in four epidemic years of the nineteenth century.  Proportion of Proportion of Estimated DMithabj smallpox Vaccinated Year. Population. 8maU*pox. deaths to persona in  Population. Population.  Per million. Per hundred.  1805... 1,032,823 1,685 1,632 10  1825... 1,435,159 1,299 905 20  1838... 1,766,169 3,817 2,161 50  1871... 3,267,210 7,912 2,422 80  The population of London in 1805 and 1825 is apparentiy incapable of complete verification. Mr. Gibbs, in preparing the above table, applied to the Registrar-General, and was favoured with the following reply : -  General Register Office, Somerset House.  Aug. 6, 1882.  Sib, - 1 am desired by the Registrar-General to inform you that his estimate of the population of Regislration London is 1,766,169 for the middle of 1838, and 3,267,210 for the middle of 1871. The area of Registration London in 1838 and 1871 was not, however, identical, as it was extended in 1844, and again in 1847.  I have further to inform you that the Registrar-General has no means for estimating the population of London, either in 1805 or 1825. - I am, dc,  Noel A. Hcmphrets. George S. Gibbs, Esq., Darlington.    .   PITY THE POOR PRISONERS! When vftcdnation vm firat introduced, people tued to be bribed to submit to the operation. In Norwich, half-a-crown was offered to whoever submitted aimself or child to the benign rit". Timea are cbanged. People are now fined or sent to prison if they withhold their children from wliat tbej know to be a detestable and danjceroua auperatition. "Vaccination that was originallf Ha- serted to be a life-long^ defence against smallpox, is now said to " wear out," and that the protection Toquires to be periodical!; renewed ; and the doctors assure the public that smallpoi will never be "stamped out until re-vaccination is made CompuIsorTiwith, of course, adequate feea annexed thereto. Whether the; will have their w>v; in this respect with the civil population remains to be "een ; but their triumph is complete to the   " Here a new tronble Iwfell the Claimant, for, after he had been taken to the weighing-room and there weighed b; medical order, he was taken with a crowd of other prisoners to the infirmary, and there subjected to that dread and abomination of all prisoners, thevaceinationproTOBs. TheClairoant was vaccioated on both arms^probablj on account of his bnlk- ^vaccination perhaps being the Penton- ville Prison medical officer's panacea for wastioK debility, and when he returned to his place in the rank of his half -naked vaccinatod fellow-prisoners, after beinff ' done,' be was Dr iy impressed, in a subdued whisper, with the necessity to ' mb plenty ov salt an' sliver inter th' bloomin' holes, when yer gits buck ter yer cell, gov'ner, an' yer'11 soon kill tb' nasty wacksination pison, or like yer 'II ba as nil th' rest ov us bloomin' ola lags   public service. Soldiers, sailors, policemen, post- men, rovemment clerlis and officials of every description are subject to vaccination by order. Wherever public pay is offered, the condition precedent is vaccination, and le-vaccinatjon whenever deemed advisable. " It is hard," as a policeman observed ; " hut what mortal nonsense won't a fellow stand, if be has to get his living? "  Another class of hpr Hajcsly's subjects fullj abare^jea, share in excess- this maternal solici- tude for their salvation from smallpox, namely, prisoners and convicts. Deprived of their right of self-control, they are apparently practised upon at discretion. They go far to he what Dr. Warlomont, the higheet authority in Europe, derignates " vaccinised," that is to say, vaccinated until the virus ceases to have anv effect on the constitution ; thereby attaining the ideal of the vaccinator's art- warranted smallpoi proof. As an exemplification of what goes on in her Majesty's prisons, we cite from the Englishman of Nov. 18   is, an' 'ave nasty sores come out on yer hide, an' it them bloomin' sores once oomea out, jer'll never be clear on 'em.' Salt is the convict's panacea for destroyinK the vitality of the vaccine vims, and is used by alt prisoners ander the idea that tboy will thereby be freed of those repulsive and painful sores which seem to be incurable in the convict prisons, as they certainly are when pri- soners are released from prison. Probably the rough-and-ready mode of inoculating one prisoner from another may have something to do with these univera.ll sorsi ; and smallpox is now almost the reg^ar arnual visitant of the convict prisons, as is proved by the almost regular closing of these establishments for nine months out of each year to all visitors to the wretched prisoners. Outsiders will say, ' But the prison death-rate is exceptionally low? ' Yes, that part of the affair is ' managed ' by the ' Released b^ Medical Order ' system, now so much in vogue at all the prisoDS.  vaccination  is practised upon all prisoners on entering each prison, even should the prisoner have been vaccinated only a few days previously !   It is not Tmcommon at one prison in particular for prisoners to be vaccinated ten times Dr ring the year, and each operation is duly entered upon the * medical report sheet ' as being ^ successful ! ' '*   CEKTIFICATES OF DEATH.  In the Echo of Nov. 20, Mr. Wm. Young writes : - A perusal of the recently issued report of the Local Government Board as to the deaths of several children at Norwich, suggests serious doubts as to the reliability and value of certificates of death ; indeed, owing to the laxity and disregard of accuracy with which they are frequently given, they may, for statistical purposes, be regarded as useless. In this Report it is admitted that four children, previously healthy, sickened and died shortly after vaccioation. The causes of their deaths should have been certified as, pri- mary, vaccination ; secondly, erysipelas. But what do we actually find? In three cases out of the four the vaccinator, a legally-qualified M.D., certifies as follows : -  Name. Cause of Death.  ' Percy Threadkill Erysipelas.  Alice Lambert Erysipelas.  Maudie Colison Bronchitis.  Thus vaccination, the fons et origo malt, the primary cause of death, is ignored ; thus legalised mfanticide is hidden ; thus the vital statistics of a nation are tampered with and falsified I How is it possible that the public, who are mainly concerned, and at whose expense this monstrous fallacy is upheld, can know the extent of the dangers and risks of vaccination when the endowed priests of State medicine, to whom is legally confided the duty of certifying causes of death, thus betray their trust and suppress the truth?   CORRECTIONS AS TO LEICESTER.  Mb. Biggs was mistaken when, in his excellent speech on Oct. 4, he said that Mr. P. A. Taylor was at one time in favour of compulsory  vaccination. Mr. Taylor never was. Compulsion lies not in the habit of his mind. He has always held that whatever is for good may be safely left to win its own way into human acceptance.  You, also, as Editor, were mistaken in saying that the Conservative candidates for the representation of Leicester in Parliament are prepared to vote against compulsory vaccination. You referred, I suppose, to the Conservative candidates for municipal ofiice. Thank God, all parties in Leicester will soon hate the very name of compulsion. I am glad to know that when the question of the compulsory law is raised in the House of Commons, Mr. Mc Arthur will loyally support Mr. Taylor. A Leicester Lad.   The Nobwich Inquiry. - As some may like to read and preserve the record of this important Inquiry, Mr. Wm. Young, 114, Yictoria'Street, Westminster, will forward a copy of the Government Report free by post on receipt of one shilling in stamps.   SCOTTISH PX)RM OF NOTICE.  Vaccination Act.  To John Faulkner Potts, Clergyman^ residing at 5, EUdon Villas, Mount Florida,  Take notice that the Parochial Board of Cathcart have, in terms of the 18th Section of the Act 26 and 27 Vict., c. 108, issued an Order to Dr. Andrew Ritchie, Vaccinator for the Parish of Cathcart, to vaccinate Nora Mary, being a child of which you are the father.  Dated this 30th day of October, 1882.  John Gbozieb, Inspector of the Poor for the Parish of Cathcart.  Memorandum.  The Act directs the Vaccinator to vaccinate every child named in the order at some time not less than ten nor more than twenty days after the date of the above notice, unless such child shall previously have been vaccinated, and a certificate of its vaccination or insusceptibility shall have been transmitted to the registrar.  The Act further directs that if, after the above notice, you refuse to allow (or take means to prevent) the operation of vaccination to be performed in pursuance of the order issued to the Vaccinator, you shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding twenty shillings, and, failing payment, to be imprisoned for any period not exceeding ten days.  Nora Mary will not be vaccinated ; and the order to Dr. Andrew lUtchie will be of no effect. We observe that Mr. Potts preached a sermon in Glasgow, on Nov. 26, entitled, " Spiritual Vaccination; or. The Mark of the Beast,'' which no doubt will induce other parents to follow his example. We commend the case to the attention of Mr. S. D. Waddy, the new M.P. for Edinbui^h ; and would ask him how he likes the law? The fine is of no account to Mr. Potts, but what if he were a poor man ?   NATAL ANTI- COMPULSORY VACCINATION LEAGUE.  President : Venerable Abchdbacon Colley. Vice-President : Mr. Richard Currie, Durban. Hon. Treasurer : Mr. C. R. Grix, Durban. Hon. Secretary : Mr. A. Mackie Nivbn, Durban.  Objects : '^ To protect all who desire its aid from the tyranny of the compulsory Vaccination Act.  " To agitate for its repeal.  '' To circolate books, pamphlets, and other publications bearing upon the subject.  " To diffuse a general knowledge of Hy^ene, and liberate medical science from State mterference and control.^'  We are glad to find that the energetic protests of Archdeacon Colley have so soon borne fruit. Already upwards of sixty members have joined the League ; and should the Government attempt to enforce the compulsory clauses of the Act, the League will immediately develop in. numbers and power. In a limited population a auestion like that of compulsory vaccination is rapidly brought under discussion when a prominent mem leads the way.   .FROM DR. EDWIN M. SNOW.  In a letter, Oct. 17, 1882, from Dr. Edwin M. Snow, Superintendent of Health, Providence, Rhode Island, to Mr. Wm. Young, he observes : -  " I think a very large portion of the opposition to vaccination in your country would never have existed, but for the compulsory law. While I do not doubt the right, in some cases, to compel persons to be vaccinated, I should consider it a very great misfortune to have a compulsory law like yours in this country. As I observed in print some twenty-three years since, the average native of Rhode Island would rather risk one attack of smallpox than be saved by compulsory  vaccination. I am entirely opposed to compulsion on the ground of public policy."  We are pleased to have such an assurance as to the sturdy character of the Rhode Islanders ; for, judging from many American newspapers, and Mr. Herbert Spencer^s alarm, it seemed to us sufficient for any one to knock at an American door and say, " I have come to vaccinate,'' when the family would at once bare their arms, and when the job was over, the head of the house would put his hand in his pocket and meekly inquire, " Now, what's to pay? " It is always well to have our illusions dissipated before they become fixed ideas.  In Dr. Snow's account of smallpox in Providence, in 1859, we find a curious passage. He says : -  " It is the opinion of those who have investigated the subject, that vacctJiation is a better protection against smallpox than smallpox itself ; and this opinion is confirmed by statistics. Professor George B. Wood, of Philadelphia, in his valuable work on the * Practice of Medicine,' says : -  " * But thus far we may go, that vaccination affords the best attainable security, greater even than that accruing from a previous attack of  smallpox  ; and that, with due care, it will serve as an effectual safeguard in individual cases, almost without exception.' "  We have been accustomed to think Sir William Gull's assertion sufficiently extravagant, that vaccination is as good against smallpox as an attack of smallpox itself ; but that vaccination should be a better protection takes our breath away. We have much to learn.   Wantid, a Clean Doctor. - Dr. George Mac- Donald, in his lastnove], " Weighed and Wanting," has something to say of the insane terror of  smallpox . One of his characters says : - " Tou can fight the tiger, but you can't fight the smallpox ! You really ought not to run such fearful risks." To which his heroine replies : " How are they to be avoided ? Every time you send for the doctor you run a risk ! You can't order a clean doctor every time!"  A Hint for Us. - Who has been the better for Mr. Green's long sojourn in gaol ? That is a question which admits but of one answer - the ritualists. Is has enabled them to establish two very important points - that they do not mean to obey the law as it is, and that they are ready to bear any consequences they may incur by disobeying it. A militant party which has made these two things clear has taken a distinct step forward. - The Spectator f Nov. 11.   DR. RENNER AT VIOTOKIA STREET.  At the invitation of the committee. Dr. Renner, Director of the Vaccine Institution, Mar^le- bone-road, gave an address on Animal Vaccmation, at the Monthly Conference of the London Society, on Nov. 20. There was a full audience, including several medical men, and Dr. Renner's discourse "was a lucid and able statement of the case for bovine vaccination. Mr. Young in reply cited the British Medical Journal to the effect that there was no evidence as to the superior protection afforded by animal over humanised lymph. Dr. Drysdale supported Dr. Renner in his usual manner - apparently reasonable and full of good humour, but in fact dogged, and without any recognition of the arguments and details advanced against him. Dr. Collins quickly brought the matter under discussion to its true bearings, and in masterly fashion exhibited the fallacy involved in vaccination with whatever variety of virus. Mr. Tebb disposed of the claim of harmlessness made for pure lymph from the calf by producing a long record of "disasters" from the United States where the virus that is not virulent " is in general use. Other speakers, including Dr. Haughton, contributed to the discussion, and a cordial vote of thanks to Dr. Renner, conduded a lively and instructive evening. At the next Conference on Dec. 18, at 7.30, Dr. Collins will review the Norwich Inquiry, when a large attendance is certain.   OUTRAGE AT BEDFORD.  In the House of Commons, on Nov. 3, Mr. Hop- wood asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department if his attention had been called to a case of distraint under the Vaccination Acts at Bedford, in which, for a fine of lis. 6d., laid on March 13, 1882, goods had been seized of the value of eleven guineas on Sept. 6, 1882, six months after the case was heard, and while the parents were mourning for the loss by death of the child for the non-vaccination of which the prosecution was instituted, and if he will make such representations to magistrates, or issue such instructions, as will prevent in future similar proceedings.  To which Sir William Harcourt replied that he had no power to set aside such a distraint, or to issue instructions to magistrates which would prevent them from putting the law into execution.  The Home Secretary is a rare hand at inability when there is no obvious advantage in ability.   Triumph at Bedford. - Dr. Crick writes, Nov. 1 : Today we have had a good and successful fight for the Town Council. Our friend, Mr. Crawley, treasurer of the Bedford Anti- vaccination  League, allowed himself to be nominated, and he has been returned at the head of the poll. There were five candidates for three seats, and the votes stood thus- Crawley, 497; Miller, 465; Qnnton, 438; Moulton, 199; Page, 90. There was no doubt about the issue. It was " Vote for Crawley, the Anti- Yacoinator.' '.   WHAT IS VACCINE?  In a letter to the WeatminUer News, Mr. James Lewis, of Ipswich, ohserves : -  Daring the Norwich Inquiry, Dr. Airy asked Dr. Guy what was the colour of vaccine lymph. Mr. Henley, who had probably never studied the question of vaccination, thought this an important point, and presided Dr. Quy for an answer. A friend of mine who was present said Dr. Guy looked up and looked down, when Mr. Henley, getting impatient, said, '* Come, I want an answer." And there is the answer : " I don't know." Here is a gentleman who has been a public vaccinator for twenty-one years, and is utterly unable to say what colour the so-called " lymph " ought to bie. The answer was a perfectly true one, and of itself settles the question of compulsory vaccination. There may be a thousand varieties of virus, all miscalled ''pure vaccine."   THE SATURDAY REVIEW ON LONDON smallPOX.  NoNSBNSB on vaccination is nowhere commoner than in London newspapers which assume to be specially well-inf ormea and written for a superior order of readers. For example, in the Saturday Review of Oct 21 there was an article, "The Report on smallpox Hospitals," in which we read: -  " When the inhabitants of London find them- selves forced to pat up with the presence of  smallpox  hospitals in their midst, and compelled to pay for them as well as tolerate them, they will do well to remember who it is that has imposed this neces- sity upon them. The costly privilege of being exposed to this particular infection is largely the result of the preaching of Mr. Peter Taylor and the anti-vaccination fanatics. But for their mis- chievous doctrines the local authorities would have little difficulty in making vaccination universal. It is only when the conscientious objection is started, and the parent declares that he would rather pay a fine or g^ to prison than have his child contaminated by vaccination, that the number of possible smallpox centres increases."  To refute this statement is needless ; it is suffi- cient to record it. Even the writer is careless to preserve consistency in his objurgation ; for he proceeds to say : -  " Upon one point there is unhappily no doubt. smallpox is increasing in London. The deaths in the great epidemic of 1871 were more than in the great epidemic of 1838. In 1838 there died 2,161 persons in every million, but in 1871 there died 2,422 persons in every million."  Yet in 1888 not half the Londoners were vaccinated I The facts seem to prove that the more vaccination^ the more smallpox.   SENSIBLE GUARDIANS.  At the meeting of the Axbridge Guardians, on Nov. 7, the Clerk reported that an order had been made on Mr. Walter R. Had wen, chemist, of Highbridge, to have his child vaccinated within one cfdendar month. The time bad expired ; the child was not vaccinated ; and what was to be done?  Mr. Brooks. - We have power to prosecute, but we have no power to compel parents to have their children vaccinated. Since, therefore, we cannot compel Mr. Had wen to do what we wish, I do not see the good of following him up.  Rev. J. A. Yatman, J.P. - How, then, are we going to enforce the Act ?  Mr. Wood. - I propose that Mr. Hadwen be summoned for disobeying the order. We have applied to the Bench for the order, and we ought not to see it frustrated. It is the second prosecution of Mr. Hadwen, and, having gone so far, we should not let it drop.  Mr. PooLE. - I concur with Mr. Wood. It would not be respectful to the Bench to allow the order to be treated with contempt.  Mr. Catley. - I move, as an amendment, that no further proceedings be taken. It is sufficient that Mr. Hadwen should have been fined once ; and to persist in the prosecution would be most un-English. Common felons suffer under the law once, and there is an end of the offence ; and why, in a case like the present, a man should be repeatedly punished, I am at a loss to know.  Mr. Hembry. - I heartily second the amendment. I consider it somewhat extraordinary that the gentlemen who propose and second the resolution for Mr. Hadwen*s continued prosecution have neither of them any children. What can they know of the dangers of vaccination ? (Much laughter.)  Rev. J. A. Yatman. - The opinion of doctors throughout the civilised world is in favour of vaccination.  Mr. Hembry.- Perhaps for the sake of their own pockets.  Rev. J. A. Yatman. - They all declare it is a great invention for saving the human race.  Mr. Bisdee.- I cannot see why we should allow one man to set the whole law at defiance.  Mr. Wookey. - What if the Act of Parliament is wrong ?  The Chairman. - We do not make the law. Our duty is to carry it out, right or wrong.  Rev. J. H. Wilkinson. - I cannot think it right that a man should be repeatedly punished for the same offence.  Rev. J. A. Yatman. - But the offence is repeated every time an order is disobeved.  Rev. J. H. Wilkinson. - I wholly disapprove of the suggested course of procedure, believing that the father of a child is the best judge of what is for the good of his child. A parent has his principles, and though his principles may not be ours, they demand our respect ; and we can have no right to come between him and his child.  After some further discussion, not without heat, the resolution to prosecute was negatived by 16 votes to 10. The result was received with cheers. There has been much excitement in the neighbourhood, and Mr. Hadwen has been overwhelmed with congratulations.  A Faithful Saying. - The experience of ages has taught us that the surest way of mining a movement which has to depend for its healthy progress upon the moral sense of the community is to link it with State compulsion. - St James's Gazette, Oct. 19.   .MR. CRAIG ON THE ORIGIN OF smallPOX.  Wb haTe been reading the" History of Ralabine/** by Mr. E. T. Craig, and have found it so full of good sense, coupled with philanthropic enterprise and curiousinformation, that we do not wonder that upwards of twenty thou."and copies of the volume have passed into circulation, and that its popularity continues unabated. This is not the place to discuss Mr. Craig*s agrarian views and experiences, but we may note with sntisfnction liis constant recognition of the value of health, and of the fact that health is less a matter of accident than of providence, and that it is to be maintained by the same intelligence that, applied to crops and cattle, results in profit and welfare. The following passage from Mr. Craig*s book shows hb opinion about smallpox : -  " Medical men talk of stamping out smallpox by Vaccination. They are only dealing with effects. They may as well attempt to esclnde sunlight by closing their eyes. smallpox is frequently gene- rated through the connection of sewers with drains opening into the basements of dwellings, after which it spreads by infection. The two recent great epidemics of smallpox wore developed after a long dry season, followed by heavy storm-floods, filling the sewers and driving the sewer gases into the houses. In Manchester, 6maIl*poz became prevalent in Hnlme and Moss Side, among middle- class houses; while in St. George's parish and Angel Meadow, containing the poorest houses and inhabitants, there were no cases at all. The houses were not eonneoted with the sewers. In Hulme, I found a young woman who had not been out of the house for some weeks. She was attacked, carried to the hospital, where she was confined on Wednes- day, and, with her baby, was buried on Friday. Her house was connected with the sewers, and the smells in it were abominable.  " In Strasburg, during the siege by the Germans, the people were forced to crowd into vaults to escape the shells, and though the city had long been free from disease, smallpox developed from the foul air. It is the same with ships at sea. Overcrowding and bad ventilation lead to outbreaks of infectious fevers."   smallPOX IN HAYTI.  A LETTER was printed in the Times of April 3, from Mr. Henry Byrom, late British Consul at Port-au-Prince, in which he said, "It is calculated that not less than 20,000 persons will ulti- mately have been found to nave perished in Hayti from the present frightful epidemic." For such a calculation we have little respect. There is no trustworthy census of the population of Hayti ; there are no regular bills of mortality ; and there is the usual tendency to exaggerate numbers involved in misfortune. For example, some time ago, Mr. James Ashbury, late M.P. for Brighton, stated of his own knowledge that the town of Ceara, in Brazil, lost no fewer than 40,000 out of its population of 70,000 ,'from smallpox. The summary answer received from Brazil was, that if so many had died, Ceara would have been depopulated - that,  * *' The Iriflh Land and Labour Queetion illiutrated in the History of Ralahine and Co-operative Farming." By £. T. Craig. (London : Trnbner & Co. ; price 2s.)   in short, the figures were fabulous. That emall-  Sx should visit severely a people like that of ayti, living in ignorance and indifference to sanitary law, is not surprising; but what we should like to ascertain is whether, as in Europe, an epidemic of smallpox in the West Indies merely displaces other forms of zymotic disease, and does not seriously affect the average death- rate. The Rev. Thomas R. Picot, of Port-au- Prince, in a letter addressed to Mr. Wm. Young, observes : -  " All classes appeared to be equally attacked and a large number of very respectable persons died. Tliere is no doubt that many of the poor died from want of proper attendance and from improper treatment. When the smallpox first broke out it gave no quarter to any. After a time it seemed to lose its virulence, and some recovered. Latterly, the larger portion of those attacked recovered, and at the end only new-born babes died.  " Almost' all the townspeople were vaccinated. The question was often asked, * Why do the vaccinated catch smallpox and die ? ' The answer given by medical men was, that the virus with which these persons had been vaccinated must have been bad. Many who were vaccinated were slightly attacked ; but, I must add, the same hap- pened to many who bad not been vaccinated. The general opinion here now, I think, is, that it mat- ters little whether one be vaccinated or not. My own opinion is, that it is better to be well vaccinated. I, my wife, and my children are well vaccinated, and we have, by God's blessing, all escaped; while our servant, who was not vaccinated, was attacked, but with proper treatment recovered.  " The virus used in Hayti was imported from America. Healthy arms were chosen, and the matter taken from them was used to vaccinate others.**  The discussion of smallpox and vaccination in distant lands, where the facts are only partially known or questionable, is as far as possible to be avoided. It is for us to keep close to verifiable experience, and to decline to leave what is certain at nome for what is uncertain abroad. Estimates of smallpox mortality in round thousands we are bound to disregard.  The International Congress. - A friend writes : - ** I am most happy to hear that you see your way to hold the Congress of 1884 in London, while for 1883 Berlin recommends itself for various rea- sons. Grerman legislators are less easily influenced than English M.P.'s, because they look down on all extra-parliamentary agitation with a kind of half conscious contempt. The love of authority is still great in Grermany, and the question of competency is nowhere more readily raised than there. Lay opinion weighs but little unless it is shared and propounded by a professor or some other titled expert. The members of the Reichstag are overwhelmed with pamphlets, books, and papers, but not one in a hundred puts his nose into such literature. Under these circumstances, a meeting of anti-vaccinationists within ear-shot of these proud and lazy law-givers would seem to be the best possible thing. The opening of the Exhibition for Hygiene, too, would enhance the efficiency of such a gathering by drawing the attention of the public from ordinary politics to subjects closely related to our cause."   ue   THE VACCINATION INQIHRER.   FROM RUFUS K. NOTES, M.D.  Lynn, Mass., Oct. 16, 1882.  Dear Sir, - My earliest conception of  vaccination was when I was about ten years of age, at which time I was put out of health for a whole year by corruption from the arm of a neighbour's child. I was told that I could not have  smallpox  more than once, and that in vaccination I should have it safely. This statement was repeated to me at college and elsewhere. Vendors of safe smallpox here involve themselves in a compound falsehood. To assume that everybody will have smallpox, and that it can only be had once, and that vaccination is a safe smallpox, is to assume what is manifestly contrary to fact. When I ask a vaccinator to reconcile Jennerism with Listerism, I am referred to Pasteurism. When I ask a vaccinator to reconcile Pasteurism with Listerism, I am referred to Jennerism. When I ask him to reconcile vaccination with Nature, hygiene, human instinct, and the truth that cleanliness is next to godliness, he fails to see the necessity. If there are doctors who are honest in their devotion to vaccination, then their honesty is born of those emotions which led their Puritan fathers to think the community unsafe without hanging its nervous and hystencal girls, and led seamen to fancy themselves and their belongings unsafe without a child's caul. Was there ever such a vile business as this vending of safe smallpox? - Sincerely yours.  To William Tebb. Rufus K. Noyks.   REASONS AGAINST COMPULSION.  By Pbofebsor F. W. Newman.  [From a tract just published, entitled "The Coming Revolution/' wherein are set forth a variety of instances of secret and despotic Parliamentary legislation.]  In 1853 a law of compulsory vaccination (so-called) was passed, and for four or five years after, the mass of the gentry were unaware of the new law, so stealthy was the process, so inobservant the retailers of news. This is no place to do more than state the outlines of this enormity. Suffice it to observe (1), That no public debate on the efficacy of vaccination has ever been held either in Parliament or in any open council of medical men. (2) That its supporters overlook the firtt principle of all modem science. They cannot deny that smallpox had a beginning in filth of food or of air, yet they forget or deny that the same causes must still produce the same effect. They gratuitously and absurdly declare tnat that is no longer possible; but that every case of smallpox is occauoned by transmis- sion, and might have been prevented by vaccination or by revaccination. (3) Denying the true causes of smallpox, they draw' off attention from them by inculcating the infusion of a new disease. (4) If cowpox does not remove the true causes of smallpox, but can (as they say) prevent the eruption, it is certain that Nature will take her revenge in some other and worse way. (6) Confessedly, smallpox never increases the mortality, but in appearance even lessens it, other diseases becoming less fatal when it is mo^t   active ; hence in no case is it a matter for Parliamentary concern at all. Yet so eminent a man as Dr. Lyon Playf air made the ridiculous assertion in Parliament that Vaccination saves us 80,000 lives every year. (6) There is not a shred of proof for what is so boldly asserted, that Vaccination ever lessened smiul-pox. The disease was diminishing already before Jenner took up Vaccination; and for thirty years after, only a very small fraction of England was vaccinated. Yet all that time it was diminishing, evidently through improved habits, better medicine, and a sudden general disuse of inoculation, which had so fatally spread the disease. (7) finally and chiefly, no Parliament has any right over healthy bodies of children or adults. Pro-vaccinators pretend (what some have called blasphemy of the Creator) that a perfectly healthy infant is a focus of dangerous infection. To command the infusion of cowpox is, on the part of any Parliament, as t^lear a usurpation as to command the infusion of the plague. To forbid perfect health is as monstrous an overstepping of legitimate law-making as to forbid chastity. A power which plays such tricks forfeits all moral right to obedience, and if overthrown by insurrection, its fall will be justified by future historians.   DEATH OF MISS ROWAN.  The Anti-vaccination Cause has lost one of its staunchest advocates by the death of Miss Frederica Kowan, which took place on October 23, at her residence, 20, Fulham-place, Maida-hill West. She had suffered from a mortal disease for fifteen years ; but her mind and powers were unimpaired by it ; and her patience and endurance enabled her to do good work for us almost to the end. We owe to her pen the translation of Rektor P. A. Siljestrom's chief tractate, which was published in 1873, under the title : '* The Vaccination Question : An Essay towards determining the Boundaries within which a Scientific Theory may rightly claim to have effect given to it by Legislation." Miss Rowan was consistently opposed to medical despotism in all its phases : especially to compulsory pollution of infants ; and to the monstrous system of Pasteur and others, by which new projects are continually hatched for menacing and plaguing the health of our race. She abided a sure end of these things with a solemn patience born of her trust in God, and carried onward into practical hope, through good and evil tidings, by her great poutical sagacity.  J. J. G. W.   PASTEURISM IN OHIO.  In the Chicago Times of Nov. 4 we read : - "Probably Mr. W. H. Griffith, of Zanesville, Ohio, is a poultry philanthropist pure and simple, but possibly he is desirous of obtaining the names of farmers with a view of sending them circulars. He writes to the Chicago Times as follows : -  " ' Several experiments have been made during the past five years, by different parties, for the purpose of preventing the spread of chicken oholera by inoculation or vaccination. We have during the past two years vaccinated the fowls in nineteen different yards where the cholera was   THE V vaccination  INQUIRER.prevailing badly, and in each yard we left some common fowls not vaccinated and they all died, but of the two thonsand vaccinated only eleven died, although they were m the same yard with those not vaccinated, that were dying daily by the scores. We have every reason to believe that this chicken vaccination will be as effective in preventing cholera among fowls as vaccination is in preventing smallpox among the human family. Vaccinate a hen, and in eight days her -system will be thoroughly inoculated, then cut off her head and catch all the blood in some vessel ; then pour this blood out on paper, and let it dry. A half drop of this dried blood is sufficient to vaccinate a fowl, and the blood of one hen will vaccinate your whole flock. Catch the fowl you wish to vaccinate, and with a pin or knife make a little scratch on the thigh (just enough to draw the blood), then moisten a little piece of the paper with the dried blood on, and stick it on the chicken's leg where you scratched it ; then let the fowl run, and you need have no fear of chicken cholera. As the result of my many experiments, I have now dried blood enough to vaccinate, I would suppose, 2,000 fowls, for which I have no use, as I do not sell patent medicines. If any of your readers are enough interested in poultry to try this preventive, by writing to me I will send them, free of any charge, enough dried blood to start with. All I ask is that they send immediately, before the blood loses its strength, and report the result of their experiment to your many readers.'   f *j   A STARTLING DISCLOSURE.  the VaccinatioD Committee of the House of Commons in 1871 appended to the printed Report of their Proceedings a very long defence of vaccinatioDy by one of the Government oflicials, from which we collect the following medical statements : -  " It has been made matter of almost familiar experiment that the infection of smallpox may by inoculation be communicated from man to the cow ; that its result is an eruption of vesicles presenting the physical characters of cowpox ; that the lymph from these vesicles, if implanted in the skin of the human subject, produces the ordinary local phenomena of vaccination ; and that, on the conclusion of this artificial disorder, neither renewed vaccination, nor inoculation with  smallpox , nor the closest contact and cohabitation with smallpox patients, will occasion him to betray any remnant of susceptibility to infection."  The writer further states that Mr. Badcock, a Brighton druggist, arrived at the same conclusion as to the origin of cowpox, he having vaccinated with such lymph more than 14,000 persons, and furnished supplies of it to more than 400 medical practitioners.  These extraordinary statements were printed at the public expense in 1871, as a justitication of the action of Government in enacting the Compulsory Vaccination Laws.  In the Lancet of April 10, 18S0, Mr. Richard- son, a surgeon in Sussex, writes thus : -  "Mr. Badcock, of Brighton, inoculated cows with the matter of smallpox taken from the human subject. I saw Mr. Badcock take some   vaccine from a cow which he had variolated - i.e., inoculated with smallpox - the week before. Being at that time public vaccinator to the western district of .Brighton, I inserted the matter so taken into one of the children. I kept up that supply for about twenty years."  Mr. Richardson also informs the reader that, in his opinion, vaccine is unalterable.  At a later period, and in a paper read before the British Medical Association at Ryde in 1881, Mr. Hodgson, M.R.C.S., said that Mr. Badcock found the udder not an eligible part to operate upon, the animal being impatient and resentful of the use of the lancet there : -  " Taking advantage of the liking which many domestic animals have for their backs to be rubbed, the cowherd would engage the cow's attention by that device, which also would cause her to raise her tail; and thus Mr. Badcock found that he could proceed deliberately to insert his lymph in the thinly- haired skin in the neighbourhood of the vulva. This lymph has been circulated throughout the civilised world. It continues to be held in esteem in Brighton. The late Mr. Marson used it for many years."  Mr. Hodgson further says that '' some influential people are daring to pronounce such  vaccinations to have been the means of spreading  smallpox .'' And he informs us that the celebrated Lyons Commission, which consisted of nine eminent men, in their experiments inoculated seventeen animals, the females on the vulva, and the males on the perinnum or scrotum. They reported that two charity children had smallpox conveyed to them by this lymph.  These remarks of Mr. Hodgson will be found in the British Medical Journal for Nov. 26, 1881.  Under the heading, '^Report of the Working of the New Animal Vaccine Establishment of the Local Government Board,'' the British Medical Journal of Nov. 18 gives the following curious particulars : -  " When the time has arrived for the animal to be inoculated, it is brought into the operating- room and placed against a table, the top of which turns upon hinges, so that it can be placed perpendicularly; a strap is then passed round the animal's body and the top of the table, which is then replaced in a horizontal position, the calf being supported, and thus placed on its side on the table. The right hind leg is then made fast to an iron bar, which stands at right-angles to the table, while the left leg is seoared in a horizontal position. The fore-legs are strapped together, and, with the head, are fixed to the table, and in this spreadeagle position the animal is ready to be shaved. The shaving is, of course, limited to that part of the body which it is intended to vaccinate, viz., the lower part of the abdomen, extending from just below the umbilicus to within a few inches of the anus, and including a fdw inches of both flanks. The shaving must be done very thoroughly, so that no fine hairs may remain to interfere with the introduction of lymph. The scrotum especially requires attention, on account of the furrows in  the skin at this part The question of sex  is unimportant, except so far as that, in the male, the scrotum affords a good surface for inoculation."   THE FALL OF COMPULSORY VACCINatION IN SWITZERLAND.  The Swiss Referendum Committee report the voting to be 253,968 against, and 67,820 in favour of, medical despotism. The small canton of Neuenburg was the only one which showed a majority for the law, and there the struggle had been craftily converted into a party one. The Committee look upon the victory as one of the corner-stones of their history, and an additional monument of their glory. They remark that, while the learned professions have sunk into the successive follies of ghost-lore, witchcraft, and cowpox, the strong sound sense of the masses has invariably had to come to the rescue. Basle city has set itself to arrange for the repeal of its municipal compulsion ; and the authorities of the cantons, which still retain vestiges of vaccinal tyranny, are now cautioned that the demand for freedom is made by a quarter of a million of ?oters^ capable of carrying arms. The representatives of the people are sternly reminded that they are elected, not to be masterful oppressors, but to be the servants and executors of the national will. The Committee stigmatise compulsory vaccination as the disgrace of modern civilisation, and they conclude, in imposing tones of republican grandeur, " Today we no longer heg for the legal control of our own bodies, we demand it ! "   ToaquEBfADA AND Pasteub.-- A correspondent in the Daily News, Nov. 23, describing an evening with Victor Hugo, reports him as saying : " In my poem on the founder of the Spanish Inquisition, I wished to serve true undogmatic religion. Tor- quemada was a well-intentioned man, and would have been good and great had he not started from a false principle, and wanted to destroy the abso- lute and eternal Hell by a relative and a temporary one. He was like those scientists who seek to destroy diseases through vaccines which keep them alive in the world. Torquemada dealt by compulsion, and left no room for the conscience to grow and move in. St. Francis of Assisi overcame evil by good, and forced souls by example, charity, and persua- sion."  Hacknet Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League. --A public meeting \wi\l be held in the Victoria Park Tabernacle, South Hackney, on Tuesday evening, Deo. 12, at eight o'clock. The Bev. Dr. Seddon will occupy the chair, and, among others. Dr. Dixon, Mr. J. H. Levy, Mr. Stevens, Mr. Emery, Mr. Young, and Mr. Belstead Tv-ill take part in the proceedings. Discussion is invited.  A. Form of Incantation.- Vaccination is a propitiatory rite, for which the oflSce might run thus : - O loving and beneficent Mother Nature, in whom alone we believe, whose workings are wholly unknown to us, we vaccinate this child in the faith that thou wilt graciously accept the ensuing illness as a substitute for that dreadful disease thou art ever intent to inflict. And, good Nature, wise Nature, if disdaining this our humble propitiation, at least take it into consideration, so that when thou dost inflict smallpox thou wilt make it so mUd that the life of the child be brought into no peril. In this assurance, and for thy satisfaction, in the name of the immortal Jenner, we now scarify and pox this dear child, once, twice, thrice, yea, five times. - ^Amen.   UNJUST VACCINATION DISTRAINTS.  Dear Sir, - Leicester will soon possess an unenviable notoriety for harsh and uncalled-for proceedings in vaccination prosecutions. Yesterfay (Thursday) three policemen entered the residence of Mr. Pratt, 42, Wellington Street, and ticketed a book-case, value £12, to cover a fine of lOs. and 28. costs. Visits were also paid to the following : - Mr. Weale, 16, Guthlaxton Street, where a couch and book-case were seized, value £8 ; Mr. Potter, 6, Catesby Street, washing-machine, value 45s. ; Mr. Chas. Woodroffe, 8, Marston Street, a diningtable and work-table, value £3. 10s. In each of the above cases the fine was 10s. and 28. costs. Total value of goods seized, £20. 15s. Total amount of fines £2, with costs, 8s. The intrusion . in Mr. Pratt's case was extremely uncouth and unbe- coming. Although asked to carry the matter out with as little unpleasantness as the case would permit, the agents of the law of tyranny and wrong disregarded the appeal, and two stood with their hats on, after entering a well-furnished room with boots un wiped, and put on a rough demeanour, apparently to intimidate as much as possible. These proceedings are altogether unnecessary. One police officer is sufficient, and he should be instructed to behave respectfully. The majority of the officials have conducted themselves admirably in these cases ; and we hope this will be our future experience till the obnoxious law is repealed. The sales will take place shortly, when the public will have the opportunity of seeing who will dare to sell, and who will dare to buy ; and also whether a policeman in plain clothes will be illegally authorised to bid for goods - ^no one could in common decency purchase. ~ On behalf of the Leicester Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League,  J. T. Biggs, Hon. Sec. Nov. 17, 1882.  The result of these distraints is thus reported in the Daily News of Nov. 25 : -  " Leicester was yesterday afternoon the scene of one of the most extraordinary anti-vaccination demonstrations ever held there. A portion of the furniture of four an ti- vaccinators had been seized for non-payment of fines, and was sold by public auction amidst the gfreatest disorder. At least a score of police had been engaged to maintain order, but the throng that blocked up the auction-yard, and even the street beyond, was so immense that they were overpowered. Before the proceedingrg commenced, an anti-vaccination demonstration was held, when a resolution was adopted denouncing the Act. The auctioneer then made his appearance, whereupon a scene ensued that simply baffled description. The vast crowd swayed to and fro, hustling and jostling the auctioneer and the police amid the greatest excitement, while the neighbourhood resounded with the hooting and yells of the anti-vaccinators. Notwith- standing the efforts of the police, it was only with the utmost difficulty that the auctioneer could discharge his duties. Eventually the whole of the seized furniture was knocked down to a representative of the Anti-Vaccination League, in order to be restored to those from whom it had been taken. The crowd subsequently adjourned to the market- place, where another demonstration was held."  When it is remembered that similar distraints and similar scenes will be repeated by the score if these infamous prosecutions are continued, there is a pleasant prospect before the authorities.   He who knows only his own Bide of the cam, knows little of thftt.~J. Stvist Mill. Frejadice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.- Aubbbt Di Vzbz.  f^te lfatcmati0tt Jnrptirer   Vol. IV., No. 40.]   JANUARY, 1883.   [Price Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.   What sball be done for the man who, at great trouble and expense, serves his country by exposiog injurious practice, resulting in suffering and death to helpless fellow-creatures ? He shall bear his own costs. Such is the decision conveyed in the following letter : -  " Local Government Board,  " Whitehall, S. W., Dec. 6, 1882. '^ Gentlemen, - I am directed by the Local Government Board to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 27th ultimo, and to state that, after fully considering the representations made in your letter of September 8 last, they have come to the conclusion that the expenses which Mr. R. Lee Bliss incurred in respect of the recent vaccination inquiry at Norwich cannot properly be defrayed from the funds placed at their disposal by Parliament, and they therefore regret that they are unable to accede to your application on his behalf. - I am, gentlemen, your obedient servant, "Walter J. Sendall,  '' Assistant Secretary.  " Messrs. W. H. Tillett & Co.,  " St. Andrew's Street, Norwich."  We affect no surprise over this communication. It is exactly what might have been predicted. The Norwich Inquiry has inflicted intense annoyance and humiliation on the officials of the Medical Department of the Local Government Board, and to ask them to recoup a portion of the expenses incurred in their discomfiture is adding insult to injury. In their eyes, Mr. R. Lees Bliss is a mischievous fellow, who will meet with no more than his deserts if severely fined for med- dling with what was none of his business. So much it is easy to understand ; but whether the public will take the same view of the matter When the case is brought under the notice of the House of Commons remains to be seen. By the mal- practice of Dr. Guy, according to the Memo- randum of Dr. Buchanan, certain children in Norwich were done to death; but save for the persistency of Mr. Bliss, the truth would have remained hidden in their graves, whilst Dr. Guy would have gone on receiving rewards for the excellence of his workmanship from the Department of which Dr. Buchanan   is the head. The inquiry at Norwich was an innovation on* former inquiries, because the sufferers were represented by counsel, and the facts could not be burked. Former inquiries have been conducted by medical officials in avowed sympathy with the malefactors, resolved at all hazard to rescue them and their craft from reproach. There was nothing peculiar about the Norwich disaster beyond the manner of its exposure. Similar disasters have been, and similar disasters will be, as long as vaccination is practised ; and it is for the public advantage that every facility be afforded for their demonstration. On the other hand, it is the policy of the Vaccination Ring at Whitehall to prevent the revelation of such disasters, and, whenever inquiry is inevitable, to reserve it for themselves, so that nothing may appear to the discredit of the benign rite and its administrators. The public interest and the medical interest are thus at complete variance, which variance is signalised in the refusal to admit the expenses of the prosecution in the Norwich Inquiry. That costs should follow judgment is the wholesome rule in actions at law, and it would be difficult to assign any valid reason why the same rule should not apply in what was practically a vaccination suit. Not only should the expenses of Mr. R. Lee Bliss be defrayed by Government, but he should receive a hearty vote of thanks for the public spirit displayed in compelling an investigation of such importance and far-reaching issues.   Statistics that are supposed to tell in favour of vaccination are often adduced with singular simplicity, the point to be proved being nullified by the evidence. For example. In the Lancet of Dec. 9, we find the following statement froo) Bavaria without apparently any conception of its real import and tendency: -  Dr. Von Kerchensteiner, one of the leading medical officials in Bavaria, has recently published some details as to the ravages of smallpox in that country during the period from 1871 to 1881. In the first-named year the disease had been introduced from France, and 30,742 persons in Bavaria were attacked, this number representing.   a proportion of '68 per cent, of the population. Of the vaccinated patients 13'6 per cent died, and of the revaccinated only 8*2 per cent. ; while of the unvaccinated) no less than 602 per cent, were carried off hy the complaint. The following figures illustrate the results of several years in succession at a later time within the period under review : -    FeroenUge  of de&ths  of Tscoin&ted  Percentage Percentage of deaths of deaths of re-vaccinated of unvaccinated   persona.  persons.  persons.  1877..  .... 10-8 ...  8-2 ....  .. 531  1878..  .... 11-8 ...  81 ...  .. 39-5  1879..  .... 13-6 ...  - ....  .. 41-1  1880..  ... 12-8 ...  ... 12-2 ....  .. 370  1881..  .... 10-3 ...  8-1 ...  .. 48-3   The paragraph has been reproduced in several quarters under the persuasion that it is a defence of vaccination^ when, in fact, no anti-vaccinator need desire a better text wherewith to illustrate his contention.   FiBST let us deal with the column of the Unvaccinated. How many were theyP and who were they ? In 1871 there were 30,472 cases of smallpox in Bavaria, of which 29,429 were vaccinated, leaving 1,313 nnvaccinated, who are daid to have perished at the rate of 60*2 per cent. This unvaccinated residuum, in a country so carefully vaccinated as Bavaria, consisted almost entirely of children too young or too feeble to undergo the Jennerian rite. Now it is conceded without dispute, that when infants contract  smallpox  the mortality is severe, whether they be vaccinated or nnvaccinated. Dr. Vernon, of South- port, says, " I never saw a child under one year of age recover from smallpox.*' The nnvaccinated Bavarian death-rate being infantile, it is therefore utterly misleading to confer upon it a general application. 1,191 vaccinated children under five years of age were attacked with  smallpox  in Berlin in 1871, and of these 484 died ; but what should be said of us if we exhibited them as fair samples of vaccinated Prussians djing at the rate of 40 per cent. ? Yet that is precisely the inference the public are intended to draw from Dr. you Kerchensteiner's record of smallpox in unvaccinated Bavarian infancy. As we have said many times, we reject with absolute disbelief the prodigious fatality ascribed to  smallpox  among the unvaccinated as un vaccinated. To show clearly what we mean, let us suppose the entire Bavarian people nnvaccinated, and ask whether any medical man would assert that in the event of a smallpox epidemic they would be cut off at the rate of 40, 50, or 60 per cent. ? The question answers itself. No one with any respect for his reputation would commit himself to an absurdity so flagrant. In variolous   epidemics when vaccination was unknown, the death-rate was generally found to range in hospitals from one in five to one in six or seven. In the great epidemic of 1762 in Boston, Massa- chusetts, the mortality was 10 per cent. Of 5,998 attacked, 539 died. Wherever we get at the facts we find that vaccination has no influence whatever in saving life from smallpox. Where the unvaccinated die of smallpox, they would equally die of pneumonia or scarlatina; and, so far as we are aware, no one has yet had the hardihood to claim that vaccination is salutary in these affections.   With unvaccinated infancy eliminated, where is the reason for satisfactionin the column that records a mortality of from 10*3 to 13'6 per cent, among vaccinated Bavarians? It is not a high mortality, nor is it a low mortality, but just what we might expect, inclusive or exclusive of vaccination. The mortality among the unvaccinated Bostonians in 1752 was not so high ; and Isaac Massey in 1727 describes 49 cases of London smallpox within his immediate experience with but one death. Where, then, are we to look for the gain from vaccination? But the chief surprise is ireserved for the mortality among the re-vaccinated. That vaccination does not prevent smallpox is generally allowed ; but in re-vaccination it is common to assume a sovereign efiicacy. Its subjects, including hospital nurses, are said to be proof against infection, and to move about in the densest variolous atmosphere with impunity. The Bavarian evidence dissipates this illusion. The re-vaccinated die as the vaccinated, with a slight difference, which is amply accounted for by the higher age of the vaccinated, years telling steadily in favour of impunity from  smallpox . Wherefore it is that \\-e say that these Bavarian statistics tell distinctly in favour of our contention against vaccination, and that we should desire no better text for a discourse in condemnation of the practice. That such statistics should be set forth as defensive of vaccination proves afresh the muddle-headed condition of its advocates. They do not understand their own case, nor what is requisite for its establishment.   Sib Chables Dilkb is to succeed Mr. Dodson as President of the Local Government Board, and some of the hopes may revive that were excited when Mr. Dodson displaced Mr. SclaterBooth. Mr. Dodson was reputed to have "a strong hand,'' with which he would execute unheard-of reforms ; but the permanent officials we suppose, were too much for him, and, so far   .as we could see, the difference between him and Mr. Sclater-fiooth was imperceptible. Sir Charles Dilke may prove lees docile than Mr. Dodson, but we are not sanguine, though it is hardly probable that he will suffer himself to be p^med and delivered in the House of Commons, as was Mr. Dodson in the instance of the Vaccine Disaster in Algiers. In any event it is for us to remember that in politics those get who can take, that we have to command where we would secure, and that if even we had a sympathiser in the place of Sir Charles Dilhe he could only assist us to any purpose in so far as we are supported by public opinion. It is the creation of such opinion that is our business.   PuMiSHMBMT is nevor so exasperating as when inflicted under a hypocritical affectation of duty. " Most reluctantly," says a magistrate to a parent who refuses to have his child vaccinated, *' Most reluctantly do I disregard your conscience and your paternal authority- but the law leaves me with no alternative - you are fined 208. and costs." Over and over again have we heard this speech, and over and over again have we exposed its wantonness and cowardice; but the speech is under continual repetition. So far from the law requiring the infliction of the extreme penalty of 20s., every magistrate is endowed with full discretion, even to the extent of absolution from any punishment whatever. In answer to Mr. Hopwood, in the House of Commons, the Presi- dent of the Local Government Board said of a parent objecting to vaccination from fear of disease: -  " It is open to the Jtuticea in any such case to impose a merely nominal Jiney or decline to make an order for the vaccination of the child; and I should hope that whenever any such case occurs^ it will he considerately and tenderly dealt with."  This statement should be recited to magistrates in every vaccination prosecution. It is far from pleasant to have to appeal to such uncovenanted mercy; but, in the meanwhile, let us make the best of it.   Wb trust the passage between Mr. Belstead and Mr. Bushby, at Worship Street, may finally set at rest the question of the right of those under prosecution for non-vaccination to be represented in court by whoever they see fit to select. In the struggle in which we are engaged we ought to know the law thoroughly, so that we may use its provisions for our defence and the embarrassment of our adversaries. Many of our friends have suffered as they need not have   suffered had they taken pains to be better in. structed. For example, some who, having re" fused to pay fines, have been subjected to distraint; have not only lost their goods to the extent of the penalty and costs, but have had to meet extortionate auctioneers' charges from the proceeds of the sales. Now, it cannot be too widely known that for distraints under £20 the law enacts that an auctioneer be allowed 10s. for advertising, and a commission of 5 per cent., or Is. in 20s., on the sum realised. More than thb, the subject of distraint may resolutely refuse to pay, and proceed against the auctioneer should he persist in retaining more. Now, mark the effect of this provision. It is not worth an auctioneer's while to conduct a distraint for a petty sum on such terms ; and where a number of nonconformists are under prosecution, if they combine and command public sympathy, no auctioneer will brave hooting and obloquy through a series of distriunts for a recompense so pitiful. Wherefore we strongly advise the refusal to pay fines, and, if distraint be enforced, to compel the observance of the legal terms. Let us resist the evil law at all hazards, and, wherever possible, use its forms to break its wicked teeth.   In ^reading the discussion of the St. Pancras. Vestry on the propriety of granting the Vestry Hall for a public meeting on the vaccination question, we are reminded of Cobden's observation on some blatant antagonists of free trade : - ** The truth never appears to greater advantage than when denounced by them. They work better for us than we can work for ourselves.*^ Certainly no condemnation of compulsory vaccination could be more effective than that implied in the arrogance and ignorance of many of its advocates. At the same time it is cheering to cbserve the prevalent good sense of the majority of the Vestry, and it is to be hoped that the public meeting to be held on the evening of January 0, under the presidency of Mr. Daniel Grant, M.P., may help to establish the St. Pancras Anti-Compulscry Vaccination Society in the respect and support of the community. In the quest for signatures to the requisition for the Vestry Hall, a well-known tradesman was applied to. He signed his name, and then quietly observed: - ''I do not see why I should help you, for many a job I get through vaccination." He was an undertaker.   Again we have good news from Switzerland. On December 17, by a vote of ^fiSQ to 716, the republic of B&le-Ville condemned the law of.   compulsory Taccination. When, by a prodigious majority, Switzerland recently pronounced against the federal enactment of the same law, we were assiduously reminded that compulsion was still the rule in many of the cantons, and that until the local enactments were repealed our jubilation was premature. Ah, well ! it is cruel to deprive the defeated of any little consolation they can contrive for themselves. Still conquest must begin somewhere, and surely nowhere more auspiciously than in a national plebiscitum. The victory at large, however, remains to be reduced to detail, and knowing how difEcult is the triumph of true science over established prejudice and credulity, we are fully prepared for many a prolonged and arduous struggle with the Jennerian superstition. The success in Basle is most encouraging. There 19 nowhere a more enlightened community in Europe, and the example set will go far to make the repetition of similar good sense and sound policy more practicable elsewhere.   Mb. Spgnceb Wells, speaking at the banquet to the Medical GiBcers of the Elgyptian Expedition on Nov. 21, said ; -  ^* Jenner is immortal as a benefactor of man- kind. It may not be generally known, but it is true, that Jenner has saved, is now saving, and will continue to save in all coming ages, more lives in one generation than were destroyed in all the wars of the first Napoleon.^  It is, perhaps, unkind to criticise closely words spoken at the termination of a public feast, but what Mr. Spencer Wells supposes generally unknown is one of the commonplaces of the more ignorant vaccinators. Vaccination, they say, has efiPected a prodigious salvation of human life; but if we call for the proof, where shall it be found ? At the end of last century 20 per cent, of the mortality of Glasgow was due to smallpox* smallpox abated, but did mortality abate? Not in the least. In a pamphlet published in 1813, Dr. Robert Watt recorded the extraordinary fact and his amazement over it. And what was true of Glasgow was true of other cities. There might be a cessation of smallpox, but the work of death was simply transferred to other agencies. What was a mystery to Watt is less of a mys- very since the development of sanitary science. We have learnt that it is vain to attempt to reduce the death-rate by any medical attack on particular ailments. In the words of Dr. Farr : -  " To save people from smallpox is not enough whilst exposed to other forms of disease. Thus, iQ a garden where the flowers are neglected, to keep ofiE thistle-down merely leaves the ground open to the world of surrounding weeds."   A lowered death-rate is the result of a general improvement in the conditions of life ; or, to cite Dr. Farr once more : -  "To operate on mortality, protection against eoery one of the fatal zymotic diseases is required; otherwise the suppression of one disease-element opens the way for others."  Dr. Watt and Dr. Farr alike held that vaccination stopped smallpox, and alike prove that the disappearance of smallpox was attended with no saving of life. Mr. Spencer Wells is of a contrary opinion, which he shares with a number of people as ill-informed as himself.   The old woman loved to hear that blessed word Mesopotamia. We laugh ; but we, too, have our blessed words. Looking into the General Baptist Magasdfiej we found the editor apologidng for vaccination under cover of the experiments of M. Pasteur. A blessed word is Pasteur. If he were an Englishman, how much of the scientific sanctity with which he is invested would vanish I Still, it is worth saying that Pasteur has not only done nothing for vaccination, but has gone far to confirm the case against it. Apparently, he never examined vaccination for himself, but assumed that it was indisputably effective against smallpox ; and proceeded to develop the principle as a preventive of certain diseases in animals. His practice has been far from successful in France, and has been discredited in Hungary by the experiments of Dr. Roszahegyi, and in England by those of Dr. Klein. The straits into which Pasteur has been led are vividly illustrated by his project of an insurance company to make good to farmers the losses by death of animals subjected to his inoculations. How far would it contribute to the credit of vaccination if a company were esta- blished to recompense parents for the loss of their children dying in consequence of the administration of the riteP There would be much business for such a company, but how long would vaccination survive its institution? And yet if Pasteur has proved anything, it is that death is a predicable sequence of vaccination.  ScArLET Fever for smallpox. - " Inquirer," in the Northern EchOj Nov. 6, asks : - " Can any of your Bcientifio readers show that the Government of our country, past or present, is in no way ac- countable for the presence of that scourge which led Professor Hnzley to say, when addressing the British Association, ' Looking back no further than ten years, it is possible to select three in which the total number of deaths from scarlet fever alono amounted to ninety thousand ? ' This fever has grown in deadly power contemporaneously with the Grovcrnment enactments to vaccinate. Where that law is best attended to, there scarlet fever i& found. What is wanted is proof that vaccination is not accountable."    .NOTES OF A TRA.VELLER.- No. 4.  A Carriageful of indignant Anti-Vaccinators - A Distributor of pablic-health tracts anti- Vaccination at Eastbourne - A fatal case with false medical certificate - Unexpected testimony amongst the convalescents - Vaccination Prosecutions and the Cowardly Justices - The Cost of Besistance and the Price of Freedom - A Sturdy Opponent - How our Liberties have been Preserved.  In the train going from Buxton to Manchester a healthy-looking countryman; dressed in sporting attire, with high top-boots, billycock hat, and bright-blue Lerchief, who overheard a conversation with a fellow-traveller opposite concerning a letter in that day's Manchester Guardian relating to the recent rejection of a Compulsory  vaccination Law in Switzerland, said: 'I don't hold with vaccination either. A little girl of mine has never been right since she were vaccinated four year ago. A bad sore, with runnings, broke out under th' arm 'bout a. week after "twere done, and an don't believe little thin^r 'U ever get over it. Doctor gave her some stuff, and said she 'ud outgrow it in toime ; Ibut she naver will. Missus told doctor he 'd done it. I '11 'ave no more done if an can help it." A parent, I urged, ought to protect his children from harm at all hazards. Here another passenger said he had thought it a cruel law to see his children punished so by vaccination. Then followed a general conversation, with strong denunciation of the law. A red- coated volunteer, cornet in hand, joined in the feneral protest against the practice. He knew )r. Robinson, of Dunkinfeld, who ''would not vaccinate at any price." Other testimonies were volunteered by my fellow-travellers, nearly every one taking a part, and reciting many cases of healthy children being injured or ruined by the operation in their own neighbourhoods.  On the arrival of the train at Manchester a " four-wheeler " took me from the London-road to the Victoria Station. My valise was put in a carriage where a man was busy cleaning the windows, who told me, amongst other things, that he bought tracts every week to distribute on Sundays at his own expense. I inquired upon what subject ; he replied " Public health tracts." He said he had known of frightful results from vaccination, and thought it ought to be done away with. He took charge of a goodly-sized parcel of " A. V." literature, and I have no doubt would prove a faithful distributor.  The attractive south coast watering place of Eastbourne will take an honourable position when some future historian records the hi^to^y of the struggle for the repeal of the Vaccination Acts, and the exposure of the evils attending the servance of the pernicious medical rite. For many years these oppressive Acts have been rigorously enforced by the guardians under the influence of misguided parsons and doctors, and as strenuously resisted by parents whose eyes have been opened to see their evil consequences. The local magistrates, while affording no moral sup- port to these courageous recalcitrants, appear, latterly, to have been ashamed to exercise their functions of fining and imprisoning their honest and conscientious fellow citizens^ and have made   a practice of refusing to sit on Vaccination cases - other less punctilious justices from Hailsham being called in to perform this objectionable office. It is a pity that, having had abundant evidence around them of the evils of the system, they should lack the moral courage of Sir J. Clarke Jervoise or Lord Clifton, and resign their posts altogether rather than administer such an unrighteous law. When cruel and tyrannous work has to be done, if the law can only be quoted to uphold it, there is unfortunately no lack of obsequious men who forget Lord Brougham's words : - " There is no tyranny so great as that which is committed in the name of the law." Generally speaking, at Eastbourne Anti- Vaccinators have courageously defended themselves before the magistrates when allowed a hearing, which has not always been the case ; but on a recent occasion an able counsel from London appeared for them, and succeeded in eliciting some damaging evidence from the public vaccinator. Dr. Colgate, against the practice ^ through which, like the Ephesian silversmiths, he had his gains. This reluctant witness, under cross-examination, confessed to the communication of erysipelas, and a few cases of more serious diseases, such as syphilis, through vaccine lymph. Some of the parents of the children were ready to testify with much less hesitation, and a more exact knowledge of the facts if called upon to do so. Mrs. Ford, the wife of a respectable builder, told me that nothing on earth would induce her to have another child vaccinated. She had had one killed by the operation performed by Dr. Colegate's deputy. "I and my husband had never thought much about vaccination, and believed that the child, who was healthy and very strong, could come to no harm by it. When it was a year and three weeks old, Dr. Colegate's son came and said he had got some very fine - what do you call it ? "- " Lymph ! " " Yes, lymph from a titled child, and the child was done. The poor child, sir, so to speak, never looked up after it. Dreadful sores broke out upon the little dear's arms, which were full of abscesses. The doctor came, and my husband told him it was the vacci- nition, but he never looked at the ulcerated arm." " What did he say was the cause of death ? " " Well, he said nothing, being, no doubt, ashamed of his work ; but the certificate was filled up diphtheria." "Was there any sip-ns of diphtheria in the neighbourhood ? " " Not the slightest ; but you know, sir, these doctors will say and do anything. I and my husband were perfectly well then, as now, and my husband told the aoctor that my child died of vaccination." Mr. Ford was one amongst the number who had recently been fined by the magistrates, and he promised to stand firm, to pay no fines, and support the weaker brethren.  The Convalescent Hospital built of bright-red brick in an elevated position near the pretty village of Meads, presents a conspicuous object to the visitor, and occupies one of the healthiest sites in this, the most salubrious of all English sea-side resorts. When walking by one morning I noticed thirty or forty of the male patients lounging on the grassy sward at the top of the cliff, which commands an unrivalled prospect of sea and land. One of the patients remarked,THE VAOCmATION INQUIRER.   after one or two observations and inquiries concerning the " Home," that it was all very well for those who could submit to the restrictions of the Institution, but some did not like it.** " The restrictions," I observed, "were nothing to what every parent in England had to submit to in reference to vacccination." " That's true ; but talking about vaccination,*' said my interlocutor, " I believe in it, and I am now a patient here through having had an aggravated attack of smallpox, which need not have happened." " How so ? were you not vaccinated? " I inquired. *' Yes, I was ; but the doctor said I ought to have been re-vaccinated." ** That 's all bosh," said another patient, who overheard our conversation ; '' vaccination's all humbug.*' Every one gladly accepted some literature which they promised to read - my provaccination friend saying, he was " open to conviction." The next day, in passing the same locality, I was pleasantly accosted by several of the patients who said, " We're all of your way of thinking, Sir, about vaccination." A dozen or so soon gathered around, and almost every one had some story of injury or death to relate within his own experience. A military-looking man said six recruits in his regiment were vaccinated on entering the service, five of whom died, and one was only saved by having his arm amputated at the shoulder.* Another said,''! have had eightchildren, six vaccinated, of whom four died - some of them, I believe, from vaccination ; I resisted as long as I could." " What is your name ? " I inquired. "Nay, if I give you my name I may be prosecuted, and sent to Coldbath-fields prison." To which his companion replied, " Don't thee see, man, that he's not a spy, he s against vaccination? " Here the patients went in to dinner, and one of them took charge of a miscellaneous assortment of the publications of the London Society, which he promised *' should not be wasted."  On July 17, fourteen parents at Eastbourne were summoned for non-vaccination, and defended with great tact and ability by Mr. Corrie Grant. The fines and costs of one of the defendants - a poor man - amounted to £4. 10s. Four parents have been imprisoned at Eastbourne for resisting the law, and Mr. Phillip Luck, a man with the indomitable spirit of the old Covenanters, has bravely resisted no fewer than thirty summonses for one child during a period of five years, and paid £30 in fines, besides costs, and has kept alive the agitation year after year by persistent and self-denying efforts. Such-like men have preserved our liberties all along the centuries - they belong exclusively to no sect or political party, and as long as England possesses these witnesses for the truth, though the majority  * Apropo" of sncli recitals, the following is part of a letter which appeared in the iMncet of Jolj 7, 1800, signed " A Military Surgeon ": - " Haying seen in the Lancet of last week an article commenting on a return moved for by Mr. Dunoombe, respecting those wno have died from vaccination, the number of amputations required to save life. &c., at the camp at Shomcliffe, I can only say that it would be advisable to extend this return, and auk for the number of those who have died, or had their anxm amputated, since the promulgation of an order from the late Director-General Alexander, limiting the performance of the operation to a particular part of the arm - viz., two inches above the elbow-joint in front^ immediately over the insertion of the deltoid muscle." - The information applied for was suppressed after the manner that the responsible officials of the French Oovemment have recently suppressed the poisoning by vaccination of 68 Zouaves at Algiers, Dec. 80,1880.   of our countrymen servilely acquiesce in tWs iniquitous system, and sell their birthright for a mess of pottage, the friends of freedom need not lose heart of grace.  " Let good men ne'er of truth despair,  Tho' humble efforts fail ; give not o *er until once more  The righteous cause prevail. The brave and true may be but few, But hope hath better things in view ; And the day shall yet appear  When the right with the might and the truth shall be. And, come what may to stand in the way,  That day the world shall see."   A NICE CUP OF TEA !  Otte friend Mr. J. Graham Spencer, when in the Isle of Wight, was referred to Dr. H. Martyn Barker as an opponent of vaccination ; and having written to him under that impression, received the following letter : -  " S.\NDOWN, Dec. 10, 1882.  " Dear Sir, - You are labouring under a delu- sion ; or, like the majority of anti- vaccinators, you are telling lies. I was mixed up in a trumped-up charge against vaccination that was held at New- port, in 1880 ; but I did not give " a true certiO- cate of death through vaccination.'' I distinctly gave a certificate that vaccination was not the cause of death.  ** I am sorry your ' agitation,' as you call it, is making headway in the island, as I think your time might be more profitably employed; and let me in conclusion say that I shall be much obliged if you will keep your fanatical rubbish to yourself. - Yours truly,  " H. M. Babkeb, M.B.  " P.S. - If I see any statements to the effect that I have given such a certificate as you say in your note to me, I shall take proceedings against you at once."  Dr. Barker says, " I distinctly gave a certificate that vaccination was not the cause of death " - the negative being in capitals for extra emphasis. Would our readers like to see a certificate so extraordinary? - a certificate not of the cause of death, but of what was not the cause of death. Here it is : -  "Pyjemia (Ppeom Vaccination)."  That is how Dr. Barker certified that vaccination was not the cause of death.  The case was that of a child of Mr. George Daniell, of Lake, Sandown, vaccinated in two places by Mr. Meeres, public vaccinator, on Jan. 8, 1881. It was a healthy child; in the father*s words : '* The strongest and finest baby we have had born to us, and we have four children living." After vai^cination, the child's health began to fall off. It started and cried at nights, and had a difficulty in breathing Four weeks after vaccination the arm had not healed. Mr. Meeres was sent for, and was askt>d by the mother if there was any danger, and Dogberry- like replied : " Not if it gets no worse." Still more alarmed, the parents sent for Dr. Barker. He found lymphatic swellings, and said the   .child's blood bad been poisoned. The child was affected all down the side on which it had been vaccinated. The leg seemed completely paralysed. The foot mortified. After four hours of convul- sions the child died ; whereon Dr. Barker certified the cause of death in the terms set forth.  The report of the case getting abroad and causing considerable excitement, the Local Government Board sent down Dr. Stevens to investigate and report. The inquiry was held on March 3.1 , and the whole drift of the medical evidence was directed to get rid of Dr. Barker's certificate, and to conjure up a cause for the pyaemia other than the true cause - ^namely, vaccination, Dr. Stevens sitting as judge, and actively assisting. Dr. Barker had repented of his temerity ; and every encouragement and facility was afforded him for wrigghng off from his interrogative assumption. Thus, when asked to explain his procedure, he replied : -  " There was a great deal of agitation in the neighbourhood about vaccination, and I put in the query to show that I was doubtful as to vaccination being the cause of death. The mark was put there solely for the information of the Registrar, and it is a question whether Daniell has not rendered himself liable to prosecution for having used the certi- ficate for other purposes than registration."  Mr. Blake. - You surely do not mean to say that a parent has not a right to know what his child dies of ? Besides, he can at any time obtain a copy of the certificate as entered by the Registrar.  Then ensued a passage of fencing : -  Mr. Blake. - When you wrote the certificate of February 20, giving pyaemia as the cause of death, did you think at that time it was the effect of vaccination ?  Dr. Barkeb. - Certainly not.  Mr. Blake. - Then why did you write " ? from vaccination ? "  Dr. Barkeb. - Because blood-poisoning had been mentioned, and I put it in for the information of the Registrar.  Mr. Blake. - But the Registrar would not have known anything about it if you had not yourself made the suggestion in the certificate. Would not the common-sense construction of that certificate be that at the time you gave it you had a doubt in your mind as to whether the pyssmia was not due to vaccination ?  Dr. Babkbb. - No.  Mr. Blake. - It is needless for me to ask you any more questions.  Dr. Barker. - I was certain in my own mind that the friends would say the child died from vaccination, and therefore I put a negative query in the certificate showing I was doubtful about it.  Mr. Blake. - That is precisely what I said. You were doubtful.  Mr. Babkeb. - I was not doubtful.  Mr. Blake. - You said just now you were.  Dr. Babkeb. - Meaning I could not swear upon the point. There are various kinds of doubt, and I doubt now if the child was killed through vaccination.  Mr. Daniell's child died of pyaemia resulting from vaccination. There was no mystery about the case. It is one of many with which, alas ! we are too familiar. We take the interrogation in Dr. Barker 8 certificate to mean simply ]i\b fear to commit himself to the fact manifest to his observation. Dr. Stevens, of course, held that '^ It   was altogether out of the question that vaccination had cauud the death of DanielCs chi/d.^* Such is the Stevens style. Applied to Norwich, it would have got over every aifficulty, and have brought Dr. Guy off with fiying colours. The humour of setting Dr. Stevens to investigate is on a par with the appointment of the wolf to adjudicate on sheep-slaugnter.  The recital of these details enables us to appreciate the singular qualifications of Dr. Barker as a professor of veracity, with the right to stig- matise '' trumped-up charges," and anti- vaccination tors as liars.   ADMITTED PERILS OF PUBLIC VACCINATION.  At the meeting of the Metropolitan Counties Branch of the British Medical Association, South London District, in October 20, Mr. J. Briodley James read a paper on Public Vaccination. He said that, among various wise and good laws enacted during the past few years for the benefit of the community, the law of compulsory vaccination, despite its numerous detractors and oppo- nents, claimed a position in the first rank. It was not to the merits of vaccinators that he sought to invite attention, but to the vast field for improvement which still existed in the administration of this law. For the purpose of carrying it into operation, districts have been laid out, and duly qualified gentlemen, called public vaccinators, had been appointed to vaccinate the children of the public at places assigned for the purpose at stated occasions and hours. He did not intend to say a word in detraction either of this really beneficial law or of its appointed practitioners; his object was to point out its existing defects, with a view to tneir ultimate removal. The public vaccinator attended on a fixed day for a limited time to vaccinate possibly a hundred children. He had his own private patients to attend to; he had but a limited period to vaccinate all the cbildren brought to him ; he had no acquaintance with their constitution nor with that of the parents. All classes of infantile constitutions were brought ; some were healthy, but the majority were more or less diseased. The rule at public vaccination establishments was to vaccinate each child with lymph taken from the arm of another, the most favourable looking pock being selected, often with- out any inquiry into the child's family history. If any questions were aaked the mother, they were invariably of the same vague and general character : - '^ Are you healthy ? Is your husband a healthy man? Has your child ever had a rash? '' Either from ignorance, or from a desire to save time and trouble, or from many other equally obvious motives, the mother almost always gave favourable replies. She omitted to inform the vaccinator that, perhaps a week or a month before, the same child had been treated for a rnsh about the buttocks, soon removed by appropriate treatment ; or, perhaps, that the father of the child was treated for an ulcerated sore-throat, &c. How could the public vaccinator be expected to divine all this; or, within the fixed period of his attendance, to investigate each case with due care?.   Under the above-named drcumatances, it would scarcely be fair to hold him responsible. The remedy was of the simplest description. Let every registered medical practitioner be em- powered to act as public vaccinator, receiving the vaccine pa^. The result in the long run would be beneficial in the extreme to the public health. Congenital syphilis would become scarcer every day; other constitutional diseases in like manner ; and the occupation of the anti- vaccination agitator would be gone. A cquainted with the constitution of many of the subjects brought to him, and with more leisure to thoroughly investigate the sanitary history of others, the vaccinator would perform his duty with tenfold efficiency. A case which had recently come under Mr. James's observation illustrated the point. One of his patients brought her baby to nim to be vaccinated. It was a fine plump child, with a clear skin. Three days after birtb this child was covered with a syphilitic rash, and suffered from purulent ophthalmia, which, under appropriate treatment, was soon removed. If any one unacauainted with the case had asked that motber if her child had ever been ill, she would undoubtedly have answered in the negative. Any practitioner under such circumstances, misled by the healthy appearance of the child, might have inoculated dozens of children with unhealthy Ijmph obtained from its seemingly healthy arm. But if every man vaccinated his own patients, he would prove by far the best judge for discriminating between favourable and unfavourable subjects, while vaccination fees would be far more equitably distributed.   MR. BELSTEAD VERSUS MR. BUSHBY.  Mb. Pabbbtt was summoned, on December 21, before Mr. Bushby, at the Worship Street Police- court, to answer for the non-vaccination of his child, and Mr. Henry Belstead, Chairman of the Eiecutive Committee of the Hackney Anti- Compulsory Vaccination League, appeared in his defence. On the case being called, Mr. Belstead stepped forward, and stated that he was present, according to the' provision of the Act, to represent Mr. Parrett. On being asked whether he was a solicitor, and replying " No," Mr. Bushby peremptorily refused to hear him. He would not even listen to the section of the Act that sanctioned the appearance of any representative a defendant mi^ht choose to designate. On Mr. Belstead persisting, Mr. Bushby ordered him to be turned out of the court, whicn was immediately done amid much excitement. Next day Mr. Belstead addressed the following letter to the magistrate : -  "81, Leconfield-road, Highbury, N. " Dec. 22, 1882.  " SiE, - I have respectf ally to call your attention to the oiroumstanoe of my attending the Worship Street Police Court yesterday in accordance with Section 11 of the Y vaccination  Act, 1871, as follows : -  "'The Defendant under the previous Act, or this Act, may appear by any member of his funily or any other person authorised by him in his behalf.'   " I appeared on behalf of Mr. Parrett, who was unable to attend. You will remember that you refused to hear me, that you refused even to hear me read the above section of the Act, that you ordered me to be removed from the court, and that I was hustled out in such a manner that I consider a common assault was committed in so doing. I have to observe that I came to that court as a respectable citizen, with a reputation as good as that of any gentleman there present, and I decline, in the interest of public justice, to submit to each treatment.  " I have, therefore, to ask you to apologise for the proceedings of yesterday; otherwise I shall feel compelled to take legal proceeding^. I hsTe this day forwarded to the Home OfGlce a statement of what took place. - I am yours respectfully,  "H. Belstead.  " Henry J. Bushby, Esq."  On the following day, after the vaccination cases were disposed of, Mr. Belstead was called into court, and Mr. Bushby tendered a public and complete apology for his indiscretion. He expressed sorrow for what had happened. lie had been under the impression that Mr. Belstead was violating the rules of the court, whereas he found that he had been acting within his statutory right, and should have been heard in Mr. Parrett*d defence. He was glad to have had his attention directed to the section of the Act, of which he bad not been aware. The proceedings of the former day being therefore illegal, he should recall his decision, and the fine would not be enforced.  Mr. Belstead expressed himself satisfied, and left the court with his friend.".  At the same court, Mr.F. T. Gardner, secretary of the Hackney League, was summoned and fined 20s. and 2s. costs, or one month's imprisonment. Mr. Bushby, we trust, will pursue his education, and discover that the extreme penalty for non-vaccination is neither required by statute nor by custom ; whilst its exaction is discouraged by Government ; and that its enforcement from the bench is therefore a tyrannical exercise of power.   A Bbtirbd Naval Officer writes from Ply- mouth : - " I am happy to say I have never been vaccinated myself, nor have any of my children - four in number, the eldest being now nearly four- teen years- old. I have no fear of them catching smallpox - or, indeed, any other disease - as Ion? as they fzret a judicious amount of good food and plenty of fresh air. I have paid much attention to diseases in all parts of the world, and I have always found they have a cause, and that until the cause is removed it is in vain to potter over effects. It is amusing to hear doctors talking of stamping out London smallpox by vaccination, when they know as well as I do that there are streets in London crowded with inmates in rooms almost as fetid as the Black Hole of Calcutta. How is it possible to stamp out smallpox so long as such quartern exist ? We know it cannot be done, and the doctors know it cannot be done ; and further, they know and we know that if it were possible to provide wholesome houses, well drained and well ventilated, for the Londoners, not only would smallpox disappear from among them, but the entire group of disorders of which smallpox is a member."   NORWICH VACCINATION INQUIRY.  At a crowded meeting of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination, held at the rooms of the Society in Victoria Street, on December 18, George Hoggan, Esq., M.D., in the chair, the following review of the Norwich Vaccination Inquiry was delivered by W. J. Collins, Jun., Esq., M.D. : -  Last June, at the Public Vaccination Station at Norwich, nine children were vaccinated by the Public Vaccinator, and in less than three weeks four of them were dead, and the remaining five were labouring under more or less severe constitutional disease. Many other children vaccinated about the same time were entirely unaffected, so far as their health was concerned by the operation.  Thanks chiefly to the untiring zeal of Mr. Bliss, aided by Mr. Burgess, and the persistency of Mr. Peter A. Taylor, a public inquiry into the cause of the outbreak was held last August, and thanks to the impartiality of the Inspectors, Mr. Henley and Dr. Airy, and the able advocacy of Mr.Corrie Grant, and in spite of the Local Government Board, the whole of the facts concerning these very painful cases has been put in the possession of the public.  tonight it is proposed to discuss the evidence which was deposed at the inquiry, the not very satisfactory report of the Inspectors, and the remarkable memorandum which Dr. Buchanan has deemed it necessary to add.  It is needless to say the subject most be ap- proached impartially, for however much the painful circumstances may excite our indignation and command our sympathy, we must, nevertheless, if we would attempt to unravel the cause of this disaster, set to work in a scientific spirit. We must not be too prone to accept all evidence against vaccination without sifting it, for that is the surest way of ruining the cause which we represent ; and, on the other hand, we must not begin by assuming, as it would seem the Inspectors assumed in their report, that the uncontaminated lymph of a healthy child tnu^ be innocuous. That assumption, which is so often made, amounts to nothing less than begging the whole question.  Vaccination with pure lymph, they say, cannot possibly do any harm, and then proceed to argue that because in such and such cases evil did result, ergo, the lymph must have been impure; entirely failing to see that that lymph, the impurity of which can only be tested by its results, is no better than l^mph which is confessedly impure. When the child is dead of erysipelas it is too late to discover that the yirus used was impure, and a retrospective test of the purity of lymph is worse than no test at all.  The leading facts of the seyeral cases may be told in a few words, and the accompanying table shows the chief points at a glance. It gives the pedigree of the lymph as conveyed from one generation of vaccmifers to another. The names of those children who suffered, but recovered, are printed in italics, and of those who died in canitals. In the last column, the weekly dates of the yacdnation are given.   03    o  CO    so o  B ^   9  J3  ¦43  O  CO   -I   a>  o  T3   i  O CO   g   o  a   C  9  o  3   .2 ^-^   I-   •g   ^ it V. ^ ^ tt    &   1-4 o  o ^   <*d   o o  >   t-i   S  o   o   i-   u  9  be  a  I  §  - .a_  >  (5   -¦s   73   o o s e   _ n  I,    QQ   9  a 'S   .a  - o.  ¦i   "(2      g   he  a      s  i   S  a  o •-9   h4 .   TABLE B. - Giving the chief points of the different cases.   Kame.  Date of Vaccination.  Attacked.  Disease.  Beralt.  1. Lambert  June 6  " 13 " 13 " 13 " 13 " 13 " 18 " 13 " 27  June 15  2 hours later  7 June 21  " 18  " 27  " 16  " 21 July 16  Erysipelas tf  it ft  Pustular Eczema Erythema Local Erysipelas Pyemia Erysipelas  Died June 26  2. Threadkill  " " 25  3. Tyler  " " 26  4. Colison  5. Harvey  6. Brown  7. Girling  8. Wilsea  ,, JvAy 4 Recovered  tt 1*  9. Worrell  fi  10. Sewell  May 30 June 6  June 10 " 14  Prurigo  Local Erysipelas  Recovsred  11. Marriott  tt  12. Davie  13. Howse  July 11 " 18  July 19 " 26  Prurigo ft  Recovered   tt   [Note. - Gases 8, 10, and 11 were discovered in the course of the Inquiry. Cases 12 and 13 have not been previously published.]   Such, then, are briefly the facts concerniDpf the children who were seriously or fatally injured through vacciuatioD at Norwich. It is now our business to inquire into the several possible explanations which may be given of the outbreak, to attempt to indicate the true one and to ascertain how far the precautions which are, or are to be adopted, are adequate to the prevention of similar outbreaks in the future. For, if it should once be proved that the occurrence of erysipelas, &c., after vaccination is due to some inherent condition of the lymph, or some unavoidable danger in the operation, or unless the cause of the disease in these cases can be clearly indicated and promptly obviated in the future, I venture to submit that on this ground alone the law is not justified in compelling obedience from those who prefer the not-inevitable risk of smallpox to the not-unavoidable risk of erysipelas.  The explanation afforded by the two inspectors after the examination of thirty-seven witnesses, one month's private inquiry by Dr. Airy, and two months' mature dtilioeration, must have been as unsatisfactory to them as it was to all interested in the inquiry ; for they sum up their conclusion thus : - " We can only conclude that the outbreak was due to some contamination of the lymph which has escaped detection." I  Neither is the hypothesis vouchsafed by Dr. Buchanan such as is at all warranted by the evi- dence deposed at the inquiry ; and if Dr. Buchanan had seen with his eyes instead of his ears, and inspected the children at Norwich, instead of romancing from hearsay at Whitehall, he would have reflected more credit upon the Department over which he presides and upon his own reputation.  what then are all the possible explanations which might be put forward to account for the disease and death which followed so closely on the vaccination of these children ? These were ably summarised by Mr. Corrie Grant in his closing speech, and the contention then put forward, which represented my opinion then, having   read the report of the Inspectors, represents my opinion still.  I. It might be suggested in the first place that it was not the fault of the vaccination at all, but that the children were themselves unhealthy, and that the simplest scratch made in their skins would have resulted in similarly dif>astrou8 consequences. Now, such a theory, which might be, and no doubt is, employed to explain isolated cases of the kind with which we are dealing, is rendered H priori untenable by the very number of the victims, apart from the gross indiscretion it would display on the part of an experienced vaccinator like Dr. Guy, for operating at once on so many children who were so manifestly unfit for vaccination. It is sufficient, however, to point out that conclusive evidence was given in every case as to the health of the children previous to their vaccination.  II. It might be suggested that superadded disease had been conveyed from the vacci- nifers to those vaccinated, but here we are at once met by the fact that no less than six different vaccinifers were employed to furniph lymph for the nine vaccinated, and that at least four of the vaccinifers, prior and subsequently to vaccination, had been entirely free from disease of any kind, and the Inspectors added, ** no blame is cast upon the vaccinator in respect of the selection of any of the vaccinifers."  III. Then, again, it had been hinted that the outbreak was due to some ill-defined meteorological or epidemical constitution of the atmosphere.  Dr. Guy in his evidence said : -  " On June 13 last I believe erysipelas was epi- demic in Norwich ; I heard this since that date. I believe Mr. Lyddon told me ; he said he had a case of erysipelas. Dr. Airy told me last Friday week there were cases of erysipelas ; I have also heard of isolated cases. From what I heard I considered there were two or three cases in Norwich at the end of June. I believe there was a slight epidemic of erysipelas."  This was the whole of the evidence given to   support this theory, while against it Mr. Lyddon deposed that in the month of June he thought there were about half-a-dozen cases dotted about Norwich. Mr. Richardson denied that there had been anything that could be described as an epi- demic of erysipelas in Norwich, while Mr. Crook had not seen a case in his practice since February. Dr. Guy, when hard pushed for a theory , was driven to take refuge in the hot weather, as an explanation of the post-Tacrinal erysipelas. A meteorological chart was forthwith put in by Mr. Bennett, which showed that on the fatal day, June 13, the lowest readings, both maximum and minimum, for the whole of the month, were recorded.  rV. Suggestions were also made in the course of the inquiry as to the possibility of insanitary conditions at the homes of the children, occasioning the erysipelas. Such a possibility was rendered highly improbable by the fact that the children came from divers parts of Norwich, some of them situated miles apart, but was completely disproved in all but one of the cases by positive evidence as to the cleanliness of the homes of the parents of the children.  V. Next we come to the very important matter of the mode of vaccination ; some error or want of care in the performance of which, and not the vaccination itself, it has been strongly urged, is mainly responsible for the Norwich disasters; and under this headfing will come the consideration of Dr. Buchanan's theory of the "ivory points." Now it is on this very point that Dr. Airy, and Mr. Henley, are entirely opposed to Dr. Buchanan, who has mercilessly tried to make Dr. Guy and his dirty ivory points the scapegoat for the whole affair. The Inspectors observe in their report : -  " With regard to the mode in which the public vaccinator had performed his public duties, no charge was brought against him by the cora- plainants, nor did it appear, in spite of confused admissions on his part, under a very severe examination by the counsel engaged on behalf of the complainants, that he had failed in carefulness or skill in the performance of his duty."  And again -  " We find that no blame was proved to attach to the public vaccinator as regards the performance of his duties at the station, or to the appliances at the station itself. We do not regard the state of the ivory points as the probable cause of the mischief."  It is true that Dr. Guy admitted in cross-examination that he did not comply specifically with the instructions of the Local Government Board ; but this state of things is in no way peculiar to Norwich, and, in fact, it is a sheer impossibility to carry these instructions out fully in the hurry and routine of a public vaccination station, and simply shows the utter impracticability and injustice of a system which is not considered safe, except under precautions which it is perfectly impossible to adopt.  Notwithstanding the disavowal of the inspectors respecting the ivory points, and their exoneration of Dr. Guy, and notwithstanding the fact that there was not one tittle of evidence given to indi- cate the ivory points as the/on" et origo mali, Dr.   Buchanan undertakes the thankless task of white- washing vaccination at Dr. Guy's expense, and undertakes to clear up the whole mystery on the assumption that foul ivory points were used.  Now with regard to the ivory points, Dr. Guy deposed : -  " I do not use the same points more than once on same day ; when a point is once used I put it into a saucer ; after use I put a point into water and rub it on a towel, then rub it on emery paper, then put it into water and rub it on a towel again, and before using it i^ain, I put it into water and wipe it on a towel."  Moreover, the evidence absolving the process of vaccination from the cause of the mischief, was so conclusive that, some days before the close of the inquiry, the inspectors intimated to counsel employed that no more evidence would be required upon that subject. It was not without surprise, therefore, that those who had closely followed the inquiry found Dr. Buchanan postulating a theory of causation which had been disclaimed by the inspectors, and was entirely unsupported by evi- dence. He thus states his case : -  " All that is required to account for occurrences that had previously been unintelligible, is to believe that in the middle of the sitting on June 13 a group of imperfectly cleaned ivory points came into use ; that two of these were used to take lymph from Percy Armes, and were rubbed into the punctures on Threadkill and Tyler ; that a third wa8 used to take lymph from Lambert, and was rubbed into Lambert's arm ; and a fourth to take lymph from Wicks to Girling, and was rubbed into the punctures on Girling* 8 arm. This is literally alt that is needful to account for the whole of the peculiarly obscure occurrences of June 13."  Now, at best, this theory only professes to explain four of the cases, and entirely ignores the remaining five. It also shows, as pointed out by Mr. Bliss in a letter to the TimeSy that Dr. Buchanan has forgotten that, besides these cases of Dr. Guy's, there were three others - two of death and one of injury - occurring in the private prac^ tice of other medical men, and into which the inspectors were not instructed to inquire. Then, again, if Dr. Buchanan had carefully tested his theory by appealing to facts, or even by examining the children, which I had the advantage of doing an advantage which might possibly nave warped Dr. Buchanan's judgment - he would have seen that it was as reckless to ascribe the Norwich cases to septic ivory points, as it was of Dr. Radcliffe to dismiss the Gainsborough cases as explained by a peculiar local tendency to the spread of erysipelas in the neighbourhood.  In dealing with this subject it is important to bear in mind the extent of the interval which elaped in the several cases between vaccination and the appearance of the disease: -  In 2 cases erysipelas appeared on same day  1 " " " 3rd i " " ,, 4tn  2 " " " 8th 1 " " " 9th 1 " " " 14th 1 " " " 19th  Now what Dr. Buchanan asserts is this, viz., that the infection of the erysipelas took place at .   the time of the application of the points to the arm either in the procesa of vaccination or in the process of tailing lymph on the eighth day. Of the nine CA8es, four, viz., Threadkill, Tyler, (Harvey) and Girling, were, according to Dr. Buchanan, infected at the time of vaccination, whereas Lambert, Cdliaon, Brown, Wilsea, and Worrell were infected on the day of inspection.  In reply, one is driven to inquire, if supposing such explanation to hold, how came it that Threadkill, Tyler, and Harvey were infected at the time of their vaccination, while Percy Armes, to whose arm these suspected points were first and most frequently applied, was not infected thereby ? And why, again, should Lambert have been inoculated while taking lymph from her arm, whereas the only child, Johnson, for whose vaccination these fatal points were employed, escaped with impunity? It is difficult to see how that foul points should in the one case kill two out of four children vaccinated from a vaccinifer who took no harm, while in the other case they killed the vaccinifer, while the child vaccinated from her escaped intnct.  Then, again, in Wilsea*s case, which, according to Dr. Buchanan, was one of the cases infected on the day of inspection or taking of lymph, it was deposed by the mother that nothing was taken from the arm on the day of inspection. Her words were : -  " I took the child to Dr. Guy's the day after inspection. I said, * You did not take anything from the arm yesterday, and I suppose this is the result.' '*  And Dr. Quy also stated that he took no lymph from the arm, as the vesicles were too forward. And, again, in Worrell's case, which was attri- butable*, as Dr. Buchanan has it, to the date of inspection, Dr. Guy deposed, "I took no lymph from its arm." So that here, again, infection by ivory points is out of the question. Once more, in Girling's case, how came it that she should be infected at her vaccination, while the vaccinifer, Wicks, was uncontarainated. Lastly, it is abundantly proved that in other cases, where no septic ivorv points were used, erysipelas, sometimes fatal, has followed vaccination.  Deaths from '* Erysipelas after Vaccination,^ From Registrar-General's Returns -   1859 I860 1861 1862 1863 1864 1865 1866 1867 1868 1869 1870   8  2  3  11  13  10  10  4  9  19  20   1871 1872 1873 1874 1875 1876 1877 1878 1879 1880   24 16 19 29 87 21 29 35 32 39   Total in 22 years.. .390  VI. In conclusion, I will consider the hypothesis that the cause of all the phenomena resided in the vaccine lymph itself; and here let me call attention to the fact that erysipelas after  vaccination is not extremely rare. The table before you gives the deaths thus registered since 1859, and when it is borne in mind that all such cases are not   returned as such, in order, according to Mr. May, " to save vaccination from reproach ; " that not one of the cases at Gainsborough, and only one of the cases at Norwich were certified thus, it will be seen that these figures only represent a portion of the whole truth.  So long ago as 1806, the College of Surgeons published 24 cases of inflammation of the arm following vaccination, whereof three proved fataL In 1844 the Dublin Journal of Medical Science published a series of cases of erysipelas after vaccination. In 1849-50, Dr. J. Jones, of Boston, reported that erysipelas frequently followed vaccination. In 1871 a great number of cases occured in London. In 1876, a series of 18 cases, of which eight proved fatal, were disclosed at Gainsborough, and were the subject of a Local Government Board inquiry by Dr. Netten Radcliffe. In 1878, Dr. Martin, of Boston, wrote of erysipelas, " that miserable com Elication, the pest of vaccinators." Enongh as been said to show that erysipelas does not unfrequently follow vaccination, in different places and countries, and under divers conditions ; that there is some connection between the two factors apart from surroundings and acci- dent, and that the greatest and most remarkable peculiarity of all, in the Norwich cases, is, that they should have obtained such wide recognition and publicity.  Even at Norwich, such occurrences are not at all exceptional.  Mr. Crook, M.R.C.S., deposed : -  " I have seen vaccine oases which have run on quickly, and produced erysipelatous inflammation in the course of three or four days. I have met several of these cases in the course of my experience ; in those cases the inflammation spread from the crease of the neck to the elbow, and affected the glands in the axilla, and sometimes the vaccine sores have run to ulceration."  Mr. Lyddon, M.R.O.S., deposed : -  " I repeatedly have cases of erythema after vaccination in my own practice, but not so severe as this. It occurs about the same period after vaccination, to the twelfth or fourteenth day. I have also had cases of vesicles turning to open sores and discharging matter. I consider this is one of the results which may be expected from vaccination, but it is not usual."  Mr. Matthews deposed : -  "I have been consulted by women with vaccinated children in about nine or ten cases from the city in the last twelve months. Grenerally they were bad cases of erysipelas."  And, indeed, these are not the first cases of the kind that have occurred in Dr. Guy*s practice as public vaccinator ; for in December, 1877, Mr. Burgess made a complaint to the Guardians against that gentleman, giving notes of a series of cases of illness fol- lowing vaccination. In the course of a systematic visitation of the vaccinated and vaccinifers, I discovered three other cnses, two of which bad even escaped the vigilance of Dr. Airy himself - viz., the cases of Howse and Davie.  I think, then, we may safely assert, in the first place, that erysipelas and other skin diseases, as   THE VACCINATIOM INQUIRER.eczema and prurigo, are not, and never have been, very uncommon sequela or complications of vaccination. What^ I would next ask, do we know of ervsipelas, and what of the nature of vaccine lymph and its modus operandi f  We know that vaccinia is an inoculahle disease ; that its nuUeriea rnorhi are in some way connected with the solid particles it contains, as proved by Drs. Burdon Sanderson (^ Public Health Reports *'), Lionel Beale, and Chauvenu ; and that these solid particles are minute spheroidal bodies, known by the very formidable name of micrococci. Of erysipelas we know, too, that it is a disease which can be propagated by inoculation, yet which also can originate de novo in any putrid sore. We know, too, that, as with vaccine lymph, so with erysipelas, micrococci are the cause, or stand in some relation to the cause , of the disease. I may quote from the " Public Health Reports," new series. No. 3, wherein it is stated that '' Septic material containing micrococci, when applied to a wound, produces intense local inflammation, which rapidly affects the surrounding skin ; the spreading disease thus produced corresponds in till its phenomena with erysipelas." If for "septic material containing micrococci'' we substitute the legitimately interchangeable term " vaccine lymph/' it would be difficult even for Dr. Buchanan to escape from the conclusion that the erysipelatous poison is inherent in the vaccine lymph. And here, strange enough, we have the illustrious corroboration of Dr. Jenner's own testimony, for if there was anything Jenner insbted upon it was this - that erysi]>elas is a necessary accompaniment of true cowpox - in fact, the seal of authenticity. Indeed, when hard pressed for pure lymph, he confesses he resorted with the utmost indifference to an "extensive inflammation of an erysipehitoits character in the upper part of the thigh of a sucking-colt " for a supply; and he added that the lymph thus obtained was the true, and not the spurious, cowpox beyond contention.  With regard to the cases in which diseases other than erysipelas followed vaccination as in Harvey, Sewell, Davie and Howse. I may say that Mr. Hutchinson has published many such, and in his clinical lectures he observes that " various forms of eruption do occur as the direct results of vaccination, and that a vesicular one is the most common : indeed, the wonder is not that vaccination should sometimes produce the exan- them, but that it should ever be without one."  Now to apply these facts we have learnt to the cases under investigation. And I would first of all observe that we see in these cases different degrees of gravity, extending from those in which no harm resulted, through those like Marriott and Girling where erysipelas was local and tolerably circumscribed, on to the cases of Threadkill and Tyler, which were examples of the acutest septic poisoning ; and, side by side with these cases, we find also certain bye-results, as it were ; aberrant forms in which, as in Wilsea, pyeemia resulted ; in Harvey, eczema ; and in Howse, Davie, and Sewell, prurigo.  That vaccination pure and simple can,j>er se, originate and convey erysipelas, I have not the smallest doubt; and if the In."pectors had fol- lowed the evidence here, instead of their precon  ceived ideas, they would have come to the sr^me conclusion.  Mr. Lyddon, M.R.C.8., deposed : -  " I should not attribute the erythema to any special fault in the vaccine lymph. I do not consider by any examination of vaccine lymph it could be ascertained whether it was likely to produce such results. I am speaking of pure lymph ; lymph which appears to be perfectly pure, or which is pure, may produce erythema. There are no medical tests, to my knowledge, by which it can be told whether the lymph is likely to cause erythema. Pure lymph taken from a child perfectly healthy, to all appearance, might produce erythema. In my opinion, the only "vay to judge whether lymph is pure or not is by its results as to erythema. The result is the only guide. That answer would apply to other diseases besido.^ erythema. If the subject of vaccination and the vaccinifcr wcix) healthy and the lymph pure, erythema and other diseases might still follow vaccination, but the disease would be intensified by unhealthiness in either child."  Mr. Crook, M.R.C.S., deposed : -  "In my opinion, the erysipelatous appearance arose from no blame either in the vaccinator or in the vaccinifer; vaccination is often irregular in its course; sometimes it goes on very quickly, other times tardily."  Dr. Guy deposed;- -  " In my opinion, the purity of Ijrmph can only be tested by results. I agpree with Mr. Lyddon that, assuming a healthy child to be carefully vaccinated with pure lymph, erysipelas might follow. Unfortunately, I can recall cases in my practice."  So that, so far as the evidence went, it was established that pure lymph taken from a healthy child, and inoculated upon another perfectly healthy child, might determine even fatal erysipelas ; that purity of lymph is only known by its results: that the only test is a pathological one ; and that impure lymph is an invention employed to explain away disasters.  It is but fair to state the argument put forward by the Inspectors against this theory. They say :-  "An opinion was put forward at the inquir}*, that pure lymph taken from a healthy child and inserted in the arm of another healthy child might of itself cause erysipelas in the latter. We cannot entertain this opinion, in view of the habitual absence of erysipelas from the practice of vaccination. We conceive that if this opinion were well grounded, erysipelas would habitually show itself in a sporadic manner at a station so largely frequented as that of Norwich. But the outburst of erysipelas with which we are concerned displays an epidemic and exceptional character which plainly negatives any theory that would make it depend upon the habitual operation of an everpresent cause."  But Jenner was right in a sense in affirming, and the Inspectors are wrong in a sense in denying, that erysipelas is a very frequent, if not invariable, accompaniment and result of vaccination. Jenner, when he said erysipelas, meant the areola which usually surrounds vaccine vesicles on the 8th to the fourteenth or fifteenth day ; the areola is erysipelas, different from our usual conception of the latter, not in kind, only in degree, and apt,.   under favourable circumstances, to become worthy of the name. I may here quote the opinion of Dr. Ogston on this point - to corroborate my own. He says (Jourvud of Anat. and Phys.^ Oct., 1882): - "There is in reality no distinction between the erysipelatous blush surrounding an acute abscess in its earliest stage, the erysipelatised infiltration that is common around the wounds of the septicaemic and the phlegmonous erysipelas that is so often fatal from blood-poisoning." And again : " Between the simple localised acute inflammation on the one hand, and the severest case of pyaemia, there exists only a difference in degree, a difference in intensity.  In assuming that erysipelas is inherent in every septic fluid like vaccine lymph, and regarding the whole system of arm-to-arm vaccination as a huge Pasteurian method of cultivating and at- tenuating diseases at will, we need not be surprised that the erysipelatous blush or areola which normally accompanies true cow pox vesicles, should in some cases extend indefinitely and even extensively, and occasionally lead to a fatal issue.  The only fact yet remnining unaccounted for and I frankly admit it ought to be accounted for - is, why does the erysipelas extend in some cases, and why does it remain circumscribed and local in the great majority, as undoubtedly it does? Here we tread upon hypothetical ground, and I can do no mord than susrgest that, presuming no unhealthiness either in vaccinifer or vaccinated, as in these cases, it may be due to the largeness or the smallness of the dose of the septic poison, perhaps to the number of micro- cocci which are absorbed.  In support of this theory, I may again quote Dr. Ogston, who says: - " The nuncber of micro- cocci in the general circulation are in proportion to the severity of the disease; so, also, the number of micrococci in the pus are in proportion to the virulence and intensity of the inflam- mation." And again. Dr. Burdon Sanderson, who says (" Public Health Report," New Series, Nov. 1, p. C8) : - " The relation of intensity between different cases of septicaemia and pyeemic infection is indicated by the number and character of these organisms."  In conclusion, I may summarise the theory I put forward thus : -  That vaccine lymph is a septic fluid containing microccoci, and, as such, is capable, per se, of causing erysipelas by inoculation and that, in fact, the normal vaccine areola is a local and mild erysipelas; that under certain conditions, possibly the result of cultivation from arm to arm, and possibly by the lymph being richer than usual in the numl>er of septic particles, the erysipelas becomes diffuse and perhaps fatal. That the vaccine pustules may, like any other putrid sore, originate erysipelas de novo. That in  vaccination we use an animal poison whose mode of action is unknown to us, and whose effects we cannot measure; that the purity of the lymph can only be ascertained by its results, and that no amount of care or caution can obviate a repetition of other disasters like that which has recently shocked us at Norwich. Such being the case, it is at once the supremest folly and the grossest tyranny to continue the compulsory enforcement of vaccination, and to think, with Dr. Buchanan   that the only lesson to be learnt from the Norwich inquiry is this - " Never use an ivory point a second time t "  Of the protective power of vaccination I say nothing tonight ; if that be so overwhelming as to render such misfortunes as these infinitesimal, compulsion itselt could not be a stronger argument for its adoption ; but if, on the other hand, we have to deal, as the Home Secretary declares, with a balance of advantages, a choice of evils, an alternative of risks, is it too much to ask that a parent shall have the right to choose for himself?   INTERNATIONAL ANTI-VACCINATION  CONGRESS.  Various circumstances have conspired to prevent the Congress, which has been anticipated with so much interest, being held in February as an- nounced ; and we regret to inform our readers that it cannot be convened until some months later. The postponement to a more genial season will, however, enable the Executive Committee to bring together a larger representation than would otherwise have been possible; and it is hoped that the various anti-vaccination associations and leaders of the opposition to compulsory vaccination will keep this important project before them, and be prepared to send suitable delegates when the occasion requires. Communications may be addressed to Dr. H. Oidtmann, Linnich, Aix-la-Chapelle, or to Mr. William Tebb, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster. It is satisfactory to know that the work in Germany, under the indefatigable leadership of Dr. H. Oidtmann, is being carried on with encouraging evidence of progress. Drs. Oidtmann, Weber, Lohnert, and other able friends of the cause have arranged to go to Berlin next month, to prosecute the work in connection with Vaccination Petitions Commission, in which it is expected Prince Bismarck will take an important part. The question in Germany is now brought within the range of practical politics, and legislative action, it is felt, cannot be long postponed.   A NEW HYPOTHESIS. [To the Editor of the Lancet. "]  Sir, - There really seems no limit to the aspects of the vaccination question. Now comes an etlmical one. As smallpox has recently made its appearance in more than one of our African colonies, and is spreading rapidly among the coloured populations, the point may not be unworthy of attention.  Dr. Tinsley, a well-known practitioner of the island of Cuba, alleges that vaccine viras, after passing throngh the negro system, is rendered prophylactically valueless for the race. If there be any grounds for such a view it would be well to ascertaiu whether the Negroid, Hottentot, Kaffir, and such-like dusky peoples of South Africa ought to be included, or to what extent.  I am, sir, yours, Ac,  A. M. Brown, M.D.  Keppel Street, Russell-square, London, Dec. 13, 1882.  Here we have a new hypothesis to account for the failure of vaccination. We have, Ist, Deteriorated Lymph ; 2nd, Lack of Be- vaccination ; and now, 8rd, Black and White do not agree   .VACCINATION SPIES IN SCHOOLS.  OiTR readers 'will not have forgotten Br. fiianchi's reported exploit as vaccination spy in the South- wark schools, and to guard against a repetition of the disgraceful offence, several of our friends wrote to candidates at the recent School Board elections, and in nearly every instance received satisfactory assurances. Mr. B. M. Butler, writing on Nov. 23, said : -   (C   Mr. Mark Wilks desires me to say that neither he nor other members of the School Board have given their sanction to any such proceeding as that mentioned in your letter."  Mr. Beurle, however, desiring something more explicit, addressed Mr. Wilks as follows : -  18, Cross Street, Hatton-garden. November 27, 1882.  Deab Sib, - Allow me to inquire whether you approve of medical or other men entering Board Schools and taking advantage of the neg^lect, or the consent, of the managers of such schools to examine the children as to whether they have been vaccinated, and giving the addresses of the parents of the unvaccinated to the vaccination officer for him to report to the Guardians for prosecution. Will you kindly inform me whether you are opposed ' to, and whether you would oppose such proceedings in future ? - Yours faithfully,  W. L. BsmtLK.  Mr. Wilks replied : -  HoUoway, N., Dec. 2. Deab Sib, - In answer to your question, I reply. Yes. I have opposed, and shall oppose, such a use of Board Schools. - Yours faithfully,  Mabk Wilks.  >  Mr. Beurle likewise addressed Mr. Benjamin Lucraft in similar terms, and received the following reply : -  London, Nov. 23, 1882. Deab Sm, - I have always been opposed, and am still opposed, to medical men or others entering our Schools with a view to finding out whether any of the children are unvaccinated. I should consider such a proceeding highly improper. - I am, dear sir, yours faithfully, B. Lucbaft.   NEWCASTLE smallPOX: A Common Story.  We often hear of ''the statistics of the Anti- Vaccinators ; '* to which the summary answer is that Anti-Vaccinators have no statistics. Their statistics are the statistics of the Vaccinators, in which they provide the material for their own condemnation ; which is probably the reason why the so-called statistics of the Anti-Vaccinators are so intensely disliked, avoided, and unanswered. The Newcastle Dispensary in 1877 completed its hundredth year, having b^en founded in 1777, and Dr. Monteith prepared a concise history of the institution, which was published in 1878 by order of the Committee.* The report is espe- cially valuable as a record of the comparative incidence of disease in a laige industrial population, where, if anywhere, smallpox might be  * Bnori t^ Vu at wcadU I>i"p0H$arf, from U" Hmndatum in 1777. Printed by order of the Committee. NewcMtle> Qpon-Tjne; 1878.   expected to show itself in severe form. In 1781 the population of Newcastle was estimated at 23,000; in 1821 it had risen to 41,794 ; in 1851 to 87,784 ; and in 1871 to 128,443 ; and through all these years and changes, the Dispensary continued in active oppration, the percentage of the patients to the population being maintained with remarkable uniformity. It is needless to add that the majority of the patients have been from the ranks of the poor, among whom smallpox has always its chief seat. As Dr. Monteith observes: -  ** They are of the class intermediate between the well-to-do working-man and the pauper. The state of distress in which these people continually live is known to few. The patient, when visited by the doctor, is nsually found lying in * poverty, hunger, and dirt ' ; and the treatment of the cases is undertaken in circumstances very unpropitious to success. Medical advice and medicine are not the only things needed. Good food, warmth, and judicious nursing are imperatively required, and are seldom if ever attainable."  Before turning to the Dispensary's record of a century of smallpox, it may be well to observe that Variolation was practised in Newcastle with great assiduity, and that the Dispensary took a lead in the business, the surgeons inoculating any one who applied. Dr. Monteith relates : -  *' By the year 1777 the arguments in favour of Variolation had so far triumphed over the habits and prejudices of the profession that there is no instance mentioned in our reports of any medical man in Newcastle opposing it. It is always spoken of as one of the best established facts of medical science. With the general public the case was different. Their prejudices were as strong as ever, and they exhibited a horror of Variolation which would satisfy the most ardent Anti- Vaccinator. To combat these prejudices various means were tried - sermons from the pulpit, pathetic exhortations in the newspapers, &c. The last and most convincing argument consisted of a pecuniary reward to parents who should allow their children to undergo the operation. . . . The sum offered was 5s. for one child, 78. for two, 98. for three, and IDs. for four and upwards. The success of this expedient was remarkable. Parents came flocking in with their children in great nnmbers. Tempted by the rewards they subjected their little ones to an operation which, unless their sentiments had pfreatly altered, they believed to be barbarous and hurtful in the extreme, and a clear temptation of Providence. Variolation on these terms commenced in the spring of 1786 ; and every year thereafter, until 1801, children were operated on at the Dispensary at the rate of over 200 per annum. In 1801 there had been in all 3,268 operated upon."  As soon as Vaccination came into vogue, Variolation was denounced as the chief cause of the existence of smallpox. It was said that what was done to avert the disease from the individual diffused it among the multitude. Vaccinators long maintained that they could easily exterminate smallpox, if only Variolators would refrain from keeping it alive. Variolation gradually ceased, and was formally prohibited in 1840, and by-and-by Vaccination was made compulsory. Nevertheless, the confident prophecy of the Vaccinators remains unfulfilled, for  smallpox  is not exterminated..   The change from Variolation to Vacciuation at the Newcastle Dispenbarj was immediate. I>r. Monteith says : -  " It is creditable to the good sense and enlightenment of the Dispensary authorities that they at once abolished II ovulation of smallpox, and sub- stituted Vaccination in its stead. In 1801, the first year, 215 children were vaccinated. The annual number rapidly rose until it reached its maximum in 1813, when 1,874 were vaccinated, after which the numbers as rapidly declined."  For this decline various reasons were assigned, such as the increase of the private practice of vaccination, and the disposition to undervalue every benefit, however great, that is purely elee- mosynary." It is forgotten that vaccination fell off as its illusory character became more and more manifest, and as the promises made on its behalf were, one and all, indisputably belied. When Jenner died in 1323, he passed away amid indifference, if not contempt. His bubble had burst. The furore for vaccination witnessed in the present generation is by no means a continuation of the original furore. That passed away. Our furore is a revival, dating from the popularity of sanitary reform, to the back of which a new generation of medical men contrived to attach vaccination !  In the hundred years, 1777 to 1877, the Dispensary had to deal with 2,610 cases of  smallpox , of which 428 terminated fatally, which as to years and mortality may be thus classified : -   Years.  Cases.  r"r,.(tm),r,o Mortality  ^=^^"^- PER 100.  1777 to 1802...  ... 365  ... 90 ... 24-6  1803 " 1827 ...  ... 273  ... 57 ... 20-8  1828 " 1852...  ... 925  ... 152 ... 16-4  1853 " 1877 ...  ...1,053  ... 129 ... 12-25   2,G1G163   The progressive reduction in mortality is, of course, ascribed to vaccination having made the disease milder ; though the report informs us that " the mortality from smallpox reached its highest point- .T5-3 per cent. - in the five years from 1802 to 1807," the very time when enthusiasm in favour of th" Jennerian rite was at its acme. We, on the other hand, would attribute the lower mortality, as did Dr. Andrew Combe, to better modes of treatment, even neglect being preferable to much of the old-fashioned regimen for smallpox. Considering the figures. Dr. Monteith observes : -  " Of smallpox I desire to speak with circumspection, for in Newcastle Anti-Vaccinators are some- what rampant. Figures, however, are stubborn things, and their import is not easily explained away. Like the vast majority of medical men, I have always firmly believed in the good results of Vaccination. Without admitting that my faith has been shaken by considering these statistics, I must confess that I have been a good deal disappointed with them. I had expected to find this terrible disease regularly decimating the population every year until the epoch of Jenner' s discovery, and afterwards diminishing, rapidly and steadily, almost to nothing. These figures do not warrant us in taking so sanguine a view of the matter.  "Whilst, therefore, we observe considerable improvement in the figures, I am of opinion that they leave us in this dilemma- either that there now   exists a grossly exaggerated impression of the prevalence and fatality of  smallpox  in former times, or else that they had begun to decrease long before the discovery of Vaccination, the beneficial effects of which must, therefore, have been at least assisted by other causes.''  Here we have an honourable confession from out the bonds of professional prejudice, and n reluctant exposure of the legend of a world decimated by smallpox, and ceasing to be deci- mated after the advent of Jenner. There is nothing singular in the Newcastle evidence that has awakened distrust in the mind of Dr. Monteith. Similar evidence is found wherever facts are available. The legend to the contrary bus become established, like many other legends, by force of repetition, until those who venture to question it are regarded with suspicion and dislike.  The Report of the Newcastle Dispensary illustrates another truth, first indicated oy Dr. Watt, of Glasgow, in 1813, that the abatement or cessation of smallpox is by no means equivalent to a reduction of aeath ; that evil conditions of life remaining unchanged, a fall in smallpox is compensated for by a rise in some cognate form of zymotic disease. Thus Dr. Monteith remarks : -  " It is generally said by the opponents of Vaccination that the other exanthemata have increased since its introduction. It must be allowed that our fig^es (probably unreliable as general data), give some support to this supposition. The proportion of cases of Scarlatina in the five years, 1827-32, was 4*3 per cent. It has never reached that high limit since ; but the percentage has never fallen below 2 in the last thirty-five years. Mortality has also increased to an alarming extent. At one time so low as 2*5 per cent., it has amounted to 17 per cent, in the last five years Scarlatina is now by far the most fatal disease on the list, with the exception of consumption."  Of Scarlatina, the Dispensary record stands thus: -  ,- r^ r. Mortality  Iears. Casks. Deaths, ppo iqo  1777 to 1802 355 ... 33 ... 93  1803 " 1827 795 ... 30 ... 3 7  1828 " 1852 1,85G ... 355 ... 8"3  1853 " 1877 3,695 ... 507 ... 155  6,665 ... 785 ... 117  Of Measles it is said, ^' the disease has some- what increased in numbers, whilst the proportion of deaths to cases has not varied much." Thus the record stands : -  TT n ", r"^.(tm),"" Mortality  Yeabs. Cases. Deaths. ,qq  1777 to 1802 180 ... 16 ... 86  1803 " 1827 436 ... 22 ... 50  1828 " 1852 1,672 ... 83 ... 6-2  1853 " 1877 2,687 ... 123 ... 4*8  4,730 ... 244 ... 6-1  Of Hooping Cough it is observed : -  ''The death-rate in former years fluctuated veidely. At present it appears to remain stationary at a figure somewhat above the average of the   century. There is a common impression that Hooping Cough is a disease of little danger and no importance, but the following table shows that of late years it has been more fatal than smallpox or Measles " : -  Yeabs. Cases. Deaths. ^er^iSo^^  1777 to 1802 245 ... 22 ... 90  1803 " 1827 220 ... 23 ... 104  1828 " 1852 743 ... 112 ... 160  1853 " 1877 1,716 ... 241 ... 140   2,02413-6   smallpox, scarJatina, measles, and hooping- cough may be regarded as convertible forms of infantile zymotic disease. Conditions of existence remaining equal, one may be the substitute of the other, maintaining thereby a common death-rate. Diarrhoea is sometimes placed in the same cate- gory ; but, like erysipelas, it is to a large extent a consequence of Taccination. It should never be forgotten that vaccination induces a constitutional disturbance or fever, which illness is offered to Nature as a propitiation for smallpox; with which propitiation, say the vaccinators, Nature is satisfied, and withholds the infliction of  smallpox . Vaccination, as an illness, however, is frequently attended with diarrhoea, and the increase of that affection, pari passu, with the increase of infant vaccination, is marked. Thus stands the record of Diarrhoea: -   Years.  Cases.  T)vKrn< MOKTALITY  1777 to 1802...  ... 1,390  ... 67 ... 4-8  1803 " 1827...  ... 1,629  7 ... -4  1828 " 1852...  ... 3,995  ... 43 ... 10  1863 " 1877 ...  ...6,117  ... 362 ... 5-9   13,031 Dr. Monteith says : -8-6   The mortality from Diarrhosa is unfortunately steadily increasing, the percentage for the last five years, 1872-77, being the highest on record, viz., 14*4. The majority of the deaths takes place among infants; and the disease is produced in most cases by the ignorance or carelessness of mothers in giving them food which is not fit for them. But why this should be the case now any more than it was twenty or fifty years ago, I can- not understand. An increased consumption of alcoholic stimulants in later times has been suggested to me as an explanation.  Any explanation is welcome that will preserve vaccination from reproach, yet what medical man is ignorant of the fact that diarrhoea is one of the commonest sequences of vaccination, Nature thus endeavouring to throw off the effects of the virus infused into the blood ?  Taking, then, these five diseases in the order of their mortality, they range thus : -   In the course of a century the Newcastle Dispenigary had dealt with a total of 250,637 cases, of which no more than 2,616 were of smallpox, or about 1 in 96. The total deaths during the century were 14,088, of which no more than 428 were due to smallpox, or about 1 in 33 ; whilst from scarlatina they were 1 in 18, from diarrhoea 1 in 80, and from hooping-cough 1 in 85. It may be said, the record of the Dispensary does not account for the population of Newcastle. True ; but it accounts for the lower strata of the population, and, therefore, for an excessive proportion of smallpox. The complete statistics of the borough would exhibit smail-pox as a still lighter afiliction. And, we repeat, there is nothing singular about the record of the Newcastle Dispensary. It is a common story. Whenever we get out of the region of romance, and tread the ground of matter-of-fact, it is to discover that the wilder horrors and ravages of smallpox have been originally evolved from imagination, and are reproduced in ignorance from hearsay.   CONFESSION AND IMPUTATION.  " Viator," vmting in the British Medical Journal of December 2, says ' -  " As regards vaccination, hearing of the few unlucky cases as compared with railway or other accidents or mortality from disease, the parents have lately been qnite threatening, evidently anxious for law, which would be very disastrous, even if we won the case, as costs are not generally imposed on the impecunious. I submit this is an unfair and invidious position for vaccinators. With our tormentors, the case is post hoc propter hoc.  " I have no doubt a sordid motive prompts the parsimonious policy of anti-vaccinators. Many children do well after vaccination, even when there are eruptions at the time. On the other hand, children free from eruptions at the time of vaccination sometimes break out afterwards, even when lymph from the National Vaccino Establishment has been used."  " No doubt a sordid motive prompts the parsi- monious policy of the anti-vaccinators." There we have it ! No doubt vaccinators practise their craft from pure love of the species, indifferent to fees.   Ancient Inoculation. - In the Revue des Deux MondeSy Aug. 1, M. Daremberg says, in an article on M. Littr^ : - " Inoculation of smallpox was practised in the second century. This is proved by the following lines from the " Schola Salernitana : " -  " Pour Eloigner d'nn fils ce poison d^Iet^ro Inocule en sa veine un virus salutaire."   Scarlatina. DiARRuuiA. smallPox. Hoopino Cough. Measles.  Years. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. Cases. Deaths.  1777 to 1802 855 33 1,390 67 865 90 245 22 186 16  1803 " 1827 795 30 1,529 7 273 57 220 23 435 22  1828 " 1852 1,866 155 3,995 43 925 152 743 112 1,572 83  1853 " 1877 3,659 567 6,117 362 1,053 129 1,716 241 2,537 123  6,665 785 13,031 497 2,616 428 2,924 398 4,730 244.   MR. HOPWOOD AND MR. DODSON.  In the House of ComrooDs, on November 28, Mr. Hop wood asked the President of the Local Qovernment Board, whether his attention had been drawn to the statement by the inspectors in the inquiry into the case of eight cbildren attacked with erysipelatous disease after  vaccination at Norwich ; as to four of the cases which terminated fatally : ** We cannot divest our minds of the strong impression that the lymph used in vaccinating those children must have carried with it the elements of the disease which they subsequently developed " ; whether the public  vaccination for had been recommended for award from the parliamentary grant ; whether Dr. Buchanan, the medical officer of the Local Government Board, in his memorandum, charged the same vaccinator with using dirty or improperly cleansed instruments in the processes of vaccination during the years 1876 to 1880, and later; and whether it was any excuse by law, in answer to fresh sum- monses to vaccinate, for the parents of any of the children so attacked to urge their fear of similar risk to the survivors ; if not, whether it was proposed by legitilation to relieve such parents from the compul"iun at present existing.  Mr. Dodson. - My hon. friend asks me four questions. As to the first question, I must point out that the quoted words have reference not to four of the cases, which terminated fatally as the question implies, but to four cases vaccinated from one child, and of which two did not get erysipelas. As to the second question, the public vaccinator was recommended for award from the Parliamentary grant in 1874, but not in 1876 or 1878, and he was again recommended in 1880; but the objectionable practice previously discovered by the inspector appeared to have been then discontinued. As t3 the third question, my answer is that, although Dr. Buchanan does charge l)r. Guy with using dirty instruments in 1876, he does not affirm that Dr. Guy did so at a later time. My answer to the fourth question is that it is no legal defence to a summons under the Vaccination Acts for parents of children attacked with erysipelatous disease after vaccination to urge their fear of similar risk to their other children ; and I am not prepared to assent to the view that, because one child may have happened to suffer, owing to malpraxiSf or some accidental circumstance, all the other children should be deprived of the protection which vaccination afiFords. At the same time I may add that it is open to the justices in any such case to impose a nominal tine, or decline to make an order for the vaccination of the child; and I should hope that whenever any such case occurs, it will be considerately and tenderly dealt with.   ST. PANCRAS VESTRY ON VACCINATION.  At the meeting of the St. Pancras Vestry, on Dec. 6, the ClerK said he had received an application from the Anti-Compulsoir Vaccination Society for the use of the Vestry Hall, to hold a  Sublic meeting, at which Mr. Daaiei Grant, [.P., had promised to preside.   Mb. Robinson. - I am very sorry indeed that Mr. Grant should have lent himself to these aDti- vaccinationists. I move that the use of the hall be not given to them.  Mb. Sutton. - I second the motion. No encouragement should be afforded to people who are intent on breaking the laws of the country.  Mb. Hoppby. - I move as an amendment that the use of the hall be granted. I am in favour of vaccination, but I do not see why it should not be subjected to discussion.  Mb. Habding. - I second the amendment. There are two sides to the question of  vaccination, and it is but right that we should give a hearing to the side that is at present least popular.  Mb. Isom. - I concur in the amendment. Truth has everything to gain from free discusaon.  Mb. W ATKINS. - We have a right to discuss vaccination, or whatever bears upon the well- being of the people. I hope the use of the hall may be granted, and that we shall hear the subject well ventilated. From much I have lately read, it seems to me that the question of  vaccination is ripe for reconsideration.  Mb. Robinson. - I shall oppose the granting of the hall to such a pernicious band of sgitators. ("Oh I oh I '' " Shame ! shame I '') I am in favour of vaccination. I believe it has been of great service in stamping out smallpox. There is a place in LamVs Conduit Street where persons can be vaccinated with pure lymph from the calf. C' Question ; Question ! ^) But these agitators spread their pernicious literature to prevent people resorting to this fount of salvation. If the Vestry grant the hall for the purpose stated, we shall next have a deputation of burglars to pray for its use to make speeches against penal servitude and flogging. ('* Oh ! oh ! " and great uproar.)  Mb. Rosb. - I am entirely opposed to the concession of the hall for the purpose. I wish the people who do not like vaccination would take themselves off to some other part of the world. The greatest curse in London is these people who are in favour of propagating smallpox.  Mb. Wetrnhall. - I contend that doing away with vaccination will increase taxation. Statistics show that a large proportion of those who die from smallpox are un vaccinated. Vaccination stops smallpox, and if it were abolished, mortality and pauperism would increase, and rates would rise.  Mr. T. C. Jones. - I have been Chairman of the Vaccination Committee in this parish for some years, and have some knowledge of the question, and I would recommend the Vestry to let the an ti- vaccinators be heard.  The amendment for granting the use of the hall was then put and carried, 83 voting for, and 24 against. The result was received with loud applause.  The public meeting will be held in St. Pancras Vestry Hall, on Tuesday evening, Jan. 9, Mr. Daniel Grant, M.P. for Marylebone, in the chair. A lar j^e gathering, including some violent oppou" tion, M expected.   .VACCINATION OF EMIGRANTS.  (The Massachusetts Eclectic Medical Journal^ November, 1882.)  Dr Murkbl sends us the following concerning what he saw of the workiug of compulsory vaccination among emigrants. It would appear from it that there are perils other than those of the sea which menace the emigrant. Di, Merkel writes : -  " I left Bremen, on the Neckar of the North German Lloyd line, in the midst of a severe rain-storm, which was accompanied by a strong wind. During the voyage two accidents occurred, the first being the death of an eight-year- old child in the steerage from the effects of brandy. The parents being very sea -sick, the child, unobserved, obtained possession of a bottle of brandy which they had, and drank sutiicient of its contents to cause death. A young lady also died, from heart disease it was said ; but we brought into port the same number of passengers as we left with, for there were two births on board. Besides 110 cabin passengers, the ^ecA^a;* carried between 700 and 800 in the steerage. The United States law provides that every emigrant, without regard to age or physical condition, shall be vaccinated within twenty-four hours after leaving the foreign port. Many of those on board were exceedingly ill, and to any one who has ever suffered the pangs of sea-sickness, it will be apparent that that was not a favourable nor a proper time for vaccination. But it must be done, for the law is clear and peremptory ; there is no evading it, for on arrival at New York, all those who cannot show a certificate from the ship*s surgeon are consigned to Blackwell's Island.  During the three days following our departure from Bremen, vaccination was the order of the day in the steerage. I was enticed thither by curiosity, and what I there saw was suggestive, to say the least, to me, and may be of interest to you. The surgeon sat on a box in the storeroom, lancet in hand, and around him were huddled as many as could be crowded into the confined space, old and young, children screaming, women crying ; each with an arm bare and a woe- begone face, and all lamenting the day they turned their steps toward " the land of the free.*' The lymph used was of unknown origin, kept in capillary glass tubes, from whence it was blown into a cup into which the lancet was dipped. No pretence of cleaning the lancet was m^de; it drew blood in very many instances, and it was used upon as many as 276 during the first day. I inquired of the surgeon if he had no fear of inoculating disease, or whether he examined as to health or disease before vaccinating. He replied that he could not stop for that, besides, no choice in the matter was left him. The law demanded the vaccination of each and every one, and he must comply with it or be subjected to a fine. I thought it a pitiful sight, and am persuaded that could the gentlemen through whose instrumentality the law was enacted see what I saw of the manner in which it was carried into effect, they would be as zealous in seeking its repeal. As conducted the law is an outrage, and no one can estimate the number of helpless, inno" I   cent children, as well as adults, who are inoculated with syphilis or other foul disease, on every ship bringing steerage passengers to our shores.  G. H. Mbrkbl, M.D."   A REASONABLE MAGISTRATE.  the Rev. James Stead, Unitarian minister, was summoned before Mr. Phillips, at the West Ham Police Court, on Dec, 13, to show cause why he had disobeyed the magistrate's order to have his son, Henry, aged 15 months, vaccinated. Mr. Stead had twice before been summoned. On the first occasion he was ordered to pay the cost of the summons, and an order was made on him to have the child vaccinated. On the second occa- sion a fine of 5s. and costs were imposed, and another order made. Mr. Fowler, the clerk of the court, asked the defendant what he had to say, aTid Mr. Stead replied that he did not believe in vaccination, and the reasons he had to give were not such as the law recog- nised, therefore it was useless entering into details. They were simply conscientious objections, and it was waste of time to discuss them, as the law did not recognise them. Mr. Phillips said he was sorry that Mr. Stead should entertain the convictions he did, but he could appreciate them, and believe them to be conscientious. For himself, he was a believer in vaccination, but at the same time he was not one of those who would have anything to do with it in a spirit of persecution \ but he must carry out the law. There was no doubt there was some risk in vaccinating, but the risk was nothing as compared with the good it did. Mr. Stead said he was of a different opinion. Mr. Phillips, continuing, said it was, of course, impossible to make the defendant vaccinate his child, and all he could do was to make an order to have it done. He should not, however, make an order for it to be done in a short time, as he knew it would not be carried out. His order would be that the child be vaccinated within three months, and the defendant would have to pay the costs of this summons. His worship added that he could duly appreciate the objection that people had, but he thought that if they looked about them and noticed how few people were now pock-marked compared with when he was young, they could then see the good done by vaccination. The experience of the country showed that vaccination had been a great preventive of smallpox. Mr. Stead then paid the costs of the summons. Mr. Phillips is to be commended for his moderation, but he ought to know that those who oppose vaccination have their own reasons to give for the asserted disappearance of smallpox and pock-marked faces.   INFECTION AND DISINFECTION.  Thk following passages of an article in the Wiener Medicinxsche Wochenschrift of June 3 may enlighten the ignorant and reassure the timid. Dr. Lorinser, one of the leading physi- cians of Vienna, writes as follows : -  '' A great deal of printers' ink has of late been wasted in discussions on the spread of the so-called ' infectious ' diseases, and on the best means of preventing it. In all these discussions public   attention is more particularly drawn to smallpox. It is easy to describe the dangers and the contagiousness of such a disease, and when this has been done, it requires but little pleading to obtain the public sanction for a series of defensive or preventive measures apparently as efficacious as they are vexatious and tyrannical. The first cry is for a more vigorous enforcement of yaocini^ tion, then schools and markets are to be closed, fairs to be prohibited, and as cabs cannot be prevented from conveying variolous patients and convalescents, and as the dangerous contact with members and frequenters of infected households, cannot altogether be avoided, a universal disinfection with the irrepressible carbolic acid becomes a matter of urgent and obvious necessity. The measures recommended by the sanitary authorities which might have reassured the public are then emphasised and gloated over by newspaper writers in such a silly manner, that the public, instead of being reassured, is frightened and alarmed without any necessity.  ** The doctors, who are in a great measure responsible for this state of public feeling, ought to remember that the shafts they have caused to be directed against the public may at any moment be turned against themselves. Already there are people who dread their doctor's visit, not knowing whether he might not come fresh from a  smallpox  patient, conveying the dreaded poison in his clothes and in his very breath.  ** Under these circumstances it would seem op- portune to inquire, for once, how much of these opinions concerning variolous infection has been scientiQcally ascertained. What has been jtroved is only this - by subcutaneous inoculation of liquid variolous lymph we can produce either a local crop of pustules or general variola. We also know from the Chinese, that the same disease can be induced through the inhaling of the dust of dried variolous scabs into the cavities of the nose. Conis* quently, variola can be propagated by the contact of variolous matter either with the broken fkin or with the mucus membrane. But it is not (his fixed contayion which is dreaded so much and which is to be didiufected ; such a substance (whether fluid or solid) being hardly liable to be altered by the fumes of car- bolic acid. That which is most dreaded and most eagerly combated is a '' volatile gaseous " sub- stance, which, fortunately, thus far has not been proved to exist outside the imagination of the learned. If we take for granted that such a volatile contagion fixes itself on the skin or the hair, on clothes and utennls, and that it can remain there for days or weeks without losing its efficacy, it becomes easy enough to explain the spread of the disease. liut when wo ask whether tnere is a tingle fact that could prove the exist- ence of such a contagion, and its power of conveying the disease, we are bound to reply in the negative. We know, as a matter of fact, that thousands of persons, though living in daily contact with variolous patients, have not caught the disease; but that one single person has ever caught it by inhaling the " volatile contagion " can never be provedf considering that variola, like all other diseases, can also break out spontaneously. Nevertheless, both doctors and patients cHng fondly to this belief in a volatile contagion : the doctors   because it frees them from the necessity of inveetigating the genuine causes of the disease; the patients because individuals (like nations) prefer to seek the causes of their sufferings in their neighbours, their own sweet body being quite incapable of generating such loathsome disease.  " Thus indolence and amovrpropre are the chief support of this popular belief. Unfortunately, this dogma can neither be disproved nor proved ; but if it were true, if such a thing as volatile contagion really existed, it would be found in its greatest concentration and virulence in smallpox hospitals, and nothing would be more natural than tiiat the attending doctors and nurses should be those most frequently affected by it. Yet such is not the case. Neither in the terrible epidemic of 1871, nor in any subsequent epidemic, have I heard of a single case of a doctor or a nurse catching the disease in the Vienna  smallpox  hospital  ** The remarkable immunity of hospital attendant4, whatever it may prove concerning the volatile contagion, proves clearly that even the fixed contagion cannot possibly be considered as a very formidable agent. And this being so, the question arises, What is it we want to disinfect? What is it we dread ? In truth we do not know. That is the only answer we can give or we ought to give. The belief in infection has no scientific basis, and the efficacy of disinfection is on a par with that of vaccination and re-vaccination, which even credulous physicians are beginning to doubt.  " There is no Royal road to health, and preservatives like these can only act where they are not wanted - in persons who know how to keep their skins clean and their blood pure, and by leading a proper life."  the Erysipelatous Penalty. - In children, after vaccination, perhaps when the spots have nearly healed, an erysipelatous redness occasionally ap- pears, spreading over the arm and a great part of the tiimk. The redness is often intense, the tisanes being very hard, painful, and shiny; and this inflammation may continue for weeks. - Sydney Binger, M.D., "A Handbook of TherapeaticB," 8th ed., p. 445.  RusHDEN Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League. - At a large and enthusiastic public meeting held in the New Hall, Rushden, Northamptonshire, presided over by the Rev. G. Garlick, the following Resolution was passed unanimously : - " That this meeting desires to place on record its emphatic protest against the compulsory clauses of the Vaccination Acts ; since such compulsion is odious to thousands of our best and most intelligent citizens, tending to sap and poison the principles of parental responsibility ; promoting distrust and antagonism to law ; spreading loathsome disease among healthy children ; and visiting with repeated fines and imprisonment those parents whose conscience gives them fortitude to resist the iniquitous enactments : on these grounds we respectfully call on the Government to repeal the compulsory clauses, and restore to parents the right to protect the health of their own children. Further, tho meeting desires to testify sincere gratitude to Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P., for his untiring labour and courage in promoting the repeal of the tyrannical legislation.   He wko kuo^a only his own sicle of the ease, knows little of that. - J. Stuabt ^tiLt. Prejudice, which sees what it pleases, cannot ."ec what is plain. - Aubrey Db Verb.  %ht Uaxdttatimt litipiir^r   Vol. IV., No. 47.]   FEBRUARY, 1883.   [Pkick Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH.  Mb. Bamibl Grant's appearance on the plat- form of the St. Pancras Anti-Compulsory Vaccination Society is signiGcant of the increasing disquiet in the public mind. Mr. Grant does not condemn  vaccination y but he sees many reasons to suspect its efficacy and its harmlessnes3. The charges made fin:ainst the practice are not an- swered, and he does not see why they are not answered. The reason he may by-and-by discover on the surface - the charges are not answered because they cannot be answered. Meanwhile it is not for us to find fault with Mr. Grant's judicial attitude. We are pleased that he should have advanced so far, and shall be glad to find many more M.P.'s ascending to a similar position. Mr. Grant is especially anxious that we should conduct our controversy without the imputation of motives - that we should never assert that medical men support vaccination for its lucrative results. Well, for our part we avoid the mercenary imputation. In the first place it is not true, some of the most fanatical advocates of vaccination getting not a shilling by the practice ; and in the second, our case is so good that we can dispense with it. Nevertheless, there are occasions when it would be folly to forget that public vaccination represents an endowment of £100,000 a year, and that private vaccination is a poll-tax on every child of the upper and middle classes. Moreover, no reader of the medical journals is ever left in doubt of the pecuniary importance of vaccination to the profession. All attempts to increase the price of the operation and to multiply its performances are commended, whilst any attempts in a contrary direction are firmly discouraged. Even the medical editor of the Times turned the Norwich Inquiry to account in suggesting that the lesson of the disaster was that the pay of public vaccinators should be increased ! There is no concealment of the fact among medical men that vaccination is a trade to be pushed like any other trade. Still, we say our cause is so good that we can afford to dispense with the mercenary imputation, especially as it appears to create so much offence, and in its general application is frequently unjust. At the same time, it would be an absurd affec-   tation to pretend that we do not know that vaccination means money, and, when occasion requires, to hesitate in asserting the fact squarely. But let us not harp upon it.   Questioned at Chelsea on January I, Sir  Charles Dilke replied : -  " I am asked whether I approve of repeated prosecutions for non-vaccination, and whether I would support the Bill against repeated penalties introduced by my predecessor, Mr. Dodson, in 1880. I need hardly say that I supported the Bill, and I was one of those who supported a similar measure in the preceding Parliament. That Bill met with a very unfavourable reception from the House of Commons - so unfavourable, that I fear there is not much use in trying to pass a Bill of the kind through the House.'  The Bill referred to was Mr. Pease's, introduced in 1878, which Mr. Sclater-Booth, then President of the Local Government Board, favoured, and Mr. Gladstone, Mr. Bright, and Mr. Forster, sup- ported, thereby provoking the Conservatives to resistance. The Bill introduced by the present Government in 1880 was never submitted to the House of Commons, inasmuch as Mr. Dodson was completely cowed by the medical deputations that swarmed into his ofiice, protesting that their craft and the safety of the country would be imperilled if vaccination was not enforced by repeated penalties. We need scarcely observe that if Sir Charles Dilke's nerves are no firmer than Mr. Dodson's he will come to an end as disastrous. As we read in the Lancet of January 6 : -  " When Mr. Dodson was appointed, we hailed him as practically ' Minister of Health,' and ventured to draw a hopeful augury from his known habits of earnestness, energy, and business tact. It is needless to say that our anticipations were egregiously falsified by experience. Mr. Dodson was no more active in the development of his department than his predecessors had shown themselves. A fatal narcotism seems to fall on the brains of Ministers who take ofiice in the Local Government Board. Doubtless, the Board is a very Aueean stable; but is it wholly and finally impossible that it should be cleansed ? "  The fatal narcotism will overcome Sir Charles Dilke if he does not bring to the vaccination question a more resolute temper than he exhibited at Chelsea. He is convinced of the impolicy and tyranny of repeated prosecutions, but.   l^e fears there is not much hope of conTerting the Hoase of Commons to a similar opinion. But he cannot know until he tries. It is his business to set the facts of the position before the House of Commons, and we are certain that were the facts Imown - the impracticability of the law, the irregularity of its administration, its severitj in one district, its lenity in another, and its abrogation in a third^there would be little hesitation either among Liberals or Conservatives in consenting to reform. For such a measure as the abolition of repeated penalties, we care little, though ready to accept any concession toward freedom. Our demand is for the repeal of all legislation in favour of vaccination, and we mean to have what we ask for.   Mb. J. F. B. FiBTH, who is Sir Charles Dilke's colleague in the representation of Chelsea, speaking at Shepherd's Bush on January 3, observed : -  " As President of the Local Government Board, Sir Charles Dilke will have an opportunity of doing a great deal in the way of decentralisation. The Local Government Board interferes in the smallest matters. In one district the Board has had a great deal to do in settling the salary of a workhouse cook, and in another in determining the proper allowance for workhouse cats* Sir Charles will have to look after London jam, milk, and other articles of food. He will also have the control of Vaccination. I never felt sure whether his predecessor, Mr. Dodson, would not bring in a Bill for the compulsory vaccination of every adult ; but I believe that Sir Charles Dilke, with his original and independent mind, will free himself from the ofEcialism which has fettered some of his predecessors.''  We shall see. Whilst willing to hope for the best, we are well aware that whatever his dispositiou; Sir Charles Dilke can give us little that we cannot take. Still, he may avoid that abject subservience to the Medical Department which characterised Mr. Dodson, so that Mr. Firth did not think it incredible that he might bring in a bill for the compulsory vaccination of adults. Of that, however, there was never any danger. Mr. Dodson found himself with more compulsion on his hands than he was equal to. The tendency of the Board is to slacken off compulsion ; to retain it, but to exercise it judiciously; boldly among the feeble, timidly, or not at all, where resistance IS vigorous. It is unofficial fanatk" like Dr. A. Carpenter, who know nothing of the difficulties of administration, who cry for more compulsion.   Vaccination by law has come to a deadlock in Leicester. The last company of parents, seventeen in number, summoned and fined 10s. each, have refused to pay, and the Board of Guardians have   declined to issue distress warrants, to be followed, as before, by public auctions, amid riot and confusion. Mr. Lennard, in moving that warrants be not issued, observed : -  << Every one of us must be convinced that such a change has come over medical opinion with reference to vaccination that we must think twice before we consent to act as we did a few years ago. The President of the Local Government Board has recently said in effect that a parent who conscientiously objects to have his child vaccinated should not be persecuted. Now I want to know how far we ougnt to go in order to ascertain whether a parent has a conscientious objection. It seems to me that if he states his case, and definitely refuses, it is useless to go further and involve ourselves in the trouble and expense of prosecution, with the certainty of defeat in the end. At Brighton fines are never p(dd; distress warrants are not issued ; and convictions are allowed to slip ; for it is taken as certain that whatever may be done, vaccination will not be accomplished. Why can- not we come to the same sensible conclusion? "  The Board came to the same sensible conclusion by a vote of 15 to 7, and it will be interesting to observe what action the Local Government Board, under the guidance of Sir Charles Dilke, will take under the circumstances. The Keighley Guardians were committed to York Castle for similar insubordination. In due course they were liberated, and the victory was theirs. Compulsory vaccination is of no effect in Keighley. Leicester is now in a fair way to ent"r into the same liberty.  The inquests held at Islington and Nottingham on infants killed by vaccination, re-enforce the lesson of the Norwich Inquiry. Whilst the physical condition of the people improves, as shown by a reduced death-rate, the mortality of the young from dbease^ inoculated or induced by vaccination exhibits a startiing increase. Such cases as come under the cognizance of coroners are as units in thousands. The child slain Nottingham would have bee^ buried und^ blameless certificate had it not b^n for the- ference of Mr. Scrimshaw and his^frien^;   4Wei   e   revelation at Islington was due to the ^ honesty of Dr. Chalmers, who would not condes^^n^^^^ |^ p^ous fraud in order " to preserve vaccinatrL ^Jnn Itom reproach." The coroner did what he cwjetiould to dia-^ courage the witnesses and attenuate tlrll^^ for^jpe^of the evidence ; and Dr. Ballard, as represe^' ^^HJutlTe of the Local Government Board, plainly iimtons jfioW that he considered such exposures as da^ly call ^^ nuisances, which ought not to be (c)ncouragS-^^^ ^ ft$ facts were, however, too well established iL the to fe got over by any artifice, and a verdict wap Mr.   corded that fully justified the reluctance of \f j Chalmers to sign a questionable certificate. ?i^   "  I    J   .opportanity should he lost to compel similar inquests. A public sentiment is rapidly forming that will sustain those who insist upon inquests OTer Tacdnation victims. The time has passed when a coroner like Dr. Lankester could with impunity alter the verdict of a jury, and write out a false certificate with the cynical observation that " the law did not recognise vaccination as a cause of death."   The Coroner asked Dr. Ballard whether there was any objection to the vaccination of new-born babes, and Dr. Ballard answered, *^ Not a bit '' ! The answer in presence of a babe killed by such vaccination is cbaracteristic of Dr. Ballard, and is precisely the sort of answer that Sangrado delivered in face of the consequences of his drastic practice. Dr. Ballard wrote a book on " Vaccination : its Value and Alleged Dangers/' which, it is said, led him to his present place and pay of £700 a year as extricator of vaccination from difficulties. In that book, at page 03, we read : -  " Vaccination is not a thing to be trifled with, or to be made light of ; it is not to be undertaken thoughtlessly or without due consideration of the condition of the patient, his mode of life, and the circumstances of season and of place. Surgeon and patient should both carry in their minds the regulating thought that the one is engaged in communicating, the other in receiving into his system a real disease - as truly a disease as  smallpox  or measles ; a disease which, mild and sen tie as its progress may usually be, yet nevertheless now and then, like every other exanthematous malady, asserts its character by an unusual exhibition of virulence."  Now, says Dr. Ballard, such a disease - a disease as real as smallpox or measles, may be inflicted on new-born babes without regard to " circumstances of season and of place," and harm them ''Not a bit"! Do we not here see how accurately Le Sage reproduced an everlasting type of medical character in Sangrado? As in so many of these vaccination exposures, there would be much to laugh at were not the issues wrought in misery and anguish. Dr. Ballard rarely opens his mouth in public save to distinguish himself by some gaucherie. At the Conference on Animal Vaccination he made a speech in which he argued that, if it were not for the interference of such smallpox epidemics as that of 1871, the records of vaccination would be perfectly satisfactory ; whereon Mr. Enoch Robinson observed, that Dr. Ballard reminded him of a bankrupt who avowed that he would be perfectly solvent if it were not for his confounded losses.   Dr Collins's searching review of the Norwich Inquiry has been reprinted, and it is   scarcely necessary for us to commend its circulation to our readers. In addition to his clear and judicial summary of the facts, Dr. Collins sets forth with remarkable perspicuity the unavoidable risks attached to the most careful  vaccination, and revives and enforces Jenner's teaching that the vaccinal areola is a limited form of erysipelas which, under various circumstances, may acquire serious and fatal extension. The British Medical Journal praised Dr. Buchanan's Memorandum in refutation of the Inspectors and condemnation of poor Dr. Guy* It was said that Dr. Buchanan had rescued vaccination from discredit, and removed all doubt as to the cause of the Normch disaster. How far Dr. Buchanan is entitled to such liberal commendation is placed by Dr. Col* line beyond question. Dr. Buchanan is too ima- ginative for his office. We have frequently to tax vaccinators for silence when involved in diffi- culties ; but when they do venture upon defence after the manner of Dr. Buchanan, it is easy to see how much more judicious they are when they keep quiet, and say nothing.   DouBTLKss many workhouse children perish under the Herodian decree prescribing their immediate vaccination* An infant was buried on Jan. 25, which was born on Dec. 34^ and vaccinated on the 26th, when two days old I It was one of several babies born in Q^ueen Charlotte^s Hospital, Marylebone, where early vaccination is practised under dictation of the Local Govern' ment Board. The coroner. Dr. Danford Thomas^ delayed interment for twenty-four hours, but finding that a medical certificate of deaths '^ Debility - Convulsions," had been given, pronounced an inquest unnecessary. In such cases all concemed are usually eager to avoid publicity, and especially the paternal relatives. In this instance an attempt will be made to compel investigation \ and, as observed in the Echo, " we think in the interest of the Hospital the demand for inquiry should be complied with.''   Mb. Hebbebt Spskcbb has reproduced in  authentic form in the Contemporary Mmew for  January his conversation with a friend on the  Americans. His observations on their careless*  ness in resenting petty aggressions on their rightSi  and the ultimate result of such carelessness^ can  scarcely receive too much attention. He ob*  serves : -  ''Probably it will surprise you if I say the American has not, I think, a sufficiently quick sense of his own claims, and, at the same time, as a necessary consequence, not a sufficiently quick .   senfie of the claims of others - ^for the two traits are organically related. I observe that they tolerate Yarious small interferences and dictations which Englishmen are prone to resist. I am told that the Siglish are remarked on for their tendency to grumble in such cases ; and I have no doubt it is true."  "Do you think it worth while for people to make themselves disagreeable by resenting every trifling aggression? We Americans think it involves too much loss of time and temper, and doesn't pay."  " Exactly ! that is what I me^n by character. It is this easy-going readiness to permit small trespasses, because it would be troublesome or profitless or unpopular to oppose them, which leads to the habit of acquiescence in wrong, and the decay of free institutions. Free institutions can be maintained only by citizens, each of whom id instant to oppose every illegitimate act, every assumption of supremacy, every ofl[icial excess of power, however trivial it may seem. As Hamlet says, there is such a thing as 'greatly to find quarrel in a straw,' when the straw implies a principle. If, as you say of the American, he pauses to consider whether he can afiFord the time and trouble - whether it will pay, corruption is sure to creep in. All these lapses from higher to lower forms begin in trifiinff ways, and it is only by incessant watchfulness tnat they can be prevented. As one of your early statesmen said: - ' The price of liberty is eternal vigilance.' But it is far less against foreign agressions upon national liberty that this vigilance is required, than against the insidious growth of domestic interference with personal liberty."  Whatever the application of these remarks to Americans, they convey a serious warning to our- selves. Canning declined even to entertain the project of compulsory vaccination, and Sir Robert Peel pronounced it impossible among his country- men ; and yet they have passed under the yoke ! And submission having advanced so far, there are apparently no limits to the schemes of medical enthusiasts, lay and professional, for the subjection of their countrymen. Nor are they mere dreamers. The statute-book bears many proofs of their activity and success, starting from and justified by the Vaccination Acts. As Mrs. Josephine Butler observed in 1870 :-  " I think we shall need a great National League or Covenant for the preservation of freedom and virtue, and to resist this threatening despotism, the darkest, perhaps, the world has ever seen - the despotism of State Doctors."   We have more good news from Switzerland. The Federal Council of the Republic has abolished compulsory vaccination and re-vaccination in the Federal Army. We do not suppose that the members of the Council are pronounced anti- vaccinists, but that they do not see why freedom and good sense should not be trusted in the case of vaccination as in other matters of opinion. There   are many who have no faith in vaccination what- ever. They are convinced that it neither prevents nor mitigates smallpox ; and that it is a disease, wantonly inflicted, often dangerous and sometimes fatal ; and the Council hold that such convictions ought not to be thwarted or overruled. On the other hand, those who have fdth in vaccination and re-vaccination may avail them- selves of their salvation to whatever extent they may deem expedient ; nor can they complain of those who do not follow their example ; for in the practice of the rite, they maintain they are absolutely secure from smallpox. The good news as to the Swiss Army is supplemented by the expectation that the cantons of St. Gall, Lucerne, Berne, Aargau, and Zurich, will presently repeat the vote of Basle, recorded last month, against enforced vaccination. Thus the Federal victory achieved in July is being steadily worked out in detail throughout the Republic as predicted. Another prediction we venture to make ; as vaccination is discontinued in Switzerland, there will be no more sraall-pox than heretofore, probably less; whilst the health of the people, especially of the young, will exhibit marked improvement.   The Prussian Government, we learn, has ap- pointed a Commission to examine the evidence adduced against vaccination at the International Congresses held at Paris and Cologne and elsewhere. This, no doubt, will be described ^ an extremely injudicious proceeding b^' the medical and medically-led press of this country, who are in complete accord with the lady described by Sydney Smith, who never looked into books " of a contrary way of thinking, lest she should be prejudiced." There is a rigid closure exercised by the majority of our English organs of opinion against anything likely to disturb the popular confidence in vaccination ; and we daresay it will be said, " It is just like these Germans, who unsettle everything, to unsettle the faith once delivered to Jenner." In the Colonies we frequently see the fashions of Home reproduced with exaggeration, and the editor of the Eastern Herald, Port Elizabeth, in his issue of Dec. 29, is no more than frank when he observes, " We believe in vaccination, and we have made up our minds not to publish anything which would induce people to believe the contrary." There we have it, fair and square I The policy of obscurantism may prevful for a time, but only for a time. Truth is sure to break through, however sedulously excluded. The evidence dili- gently suppressed in England obtains exhibition in Prussia ; and if only the exhibition be full and   I   .unreserved, the result is certaiu, and the outburst of light in England will be all the more astonishing for the darkness that has been artificially muntained.   the conductors of the Graphic' are to be thanked for the illustrations in their number of Jan. 13 of '^the fount of salvation opened by Government in Lamb's Conduit Street " - to use the words of an enthusiastic St. Pancras Vestryman. The fount, it appears, is a crop of vesicles on the posteriors and abdomen of a miserable heifer, and the recipients of the salvation are wounded and weeping infants - a lively exhibition of the prevalent intelligence of the nineteenth century I We question whether anything in the annals of witchcraft could be found more revolting, degrading, incredible I It i^ not without significance that such obscene rites are lineally related to witchcraft through Cotton Mather, the New England witch-catcher and executioner, and the first to introduce inoculation with smallpox to the western world. Strange to say, the Lamb's Conduit Street ''fount of salvation ^ is opened in deliberate defiance of the teaching of the immortal Jenner, its nominal patron. Jenner was compelled to reject cowpox as useless against smallpox. His prescription was  horsepox , or  horsepox  inoculated on the cow. Still, it may be argued that, since vaccination is a species of incantation, it matters little what is the vehicle of the incantation, the virtue being spiritually communicated. What is believed to be good against smallpox, is good against smallpox, the charm consisting in the faith wherewith it is received.   Such is the transcendental view of vaccination. As matter-of-fact, animal virus is resorted to be- cause virus transmitted through human subjects is known to transmit human diseases; and the establishment of animal inoculation by Government is an open confession of what has hitherto been persistently denied. But allowing that human diseases are avoided in animal inoculation, are not animal diseases transmissible? The evi- dence is conclusive that they are. If cowpox can be reproduced on the human subject as vaccine fever, what is to prevent the simultaneous inoculation of other diseases- as, for example, tuberculosis? fir, Jenkiu?, secretary of the Royal Agricultural Society, states in the Times of Oct. 10, that in Hanover ten per cent, of bullocks slaughtered were found affected with tubercular disease ; and in a letter to the Countess de Noailles, he says : -  '' I am not in a position to discuss the question as to hew cattle become affected with tuber  culosis. I have simply tried to point out (1) that a large number of cattle are so affected, (2) that the disease is communicable from them to the eaters of their fiesh, and by them to their progeny, and (3) that the disease in the meat may be detected by experts, and so prevented from going into marKet."  If, then, tuberculous disease is communicable to man through his digestive organs, how much more surely must it be so when virus from a diseased animal is inoculated into his blood ! If animals affected with tubercle are eaten every day, as Mr. Jenkins avers, '' owing to the absence of inspection," how can it be safe to inoculate from calves without dissection of their lungs? Surely it would be better to incur the risk of smallpox than in seeking an illusory immunity to inseminate consumption.   The case of Mr. James Burman is instructive and illustrative of the cock-sure habit of mind of the Home Secretary. Mr. Burman was sent to prison for non-payment of a vaccination fine. In prison his hair was cut off ; he was put in prison- dress, was refused necessary clothing, compelled to pick oakum, and to sleep on a plank bed - in short, was treated as a felon. On July 27 we read in the parliamentary report that : -  Mr. P. A. Taylob asked whether Mr. James Burman, of Derby, who had been sentenced to seven days' imprisonment for refusing to have his child vaccinated, was compelled to sleep on a plank bed, was refused sufficient clothing by day to prevent his suffering from cold, and was compelled to pick oakum, although hard labour was not a part of the sentence.  Sir W. Habcoubt said he had inquired into this case, and found that nothing was done which was not in strict accordance witn the prison rules.   " All right " was the judgment of the highest authority ; but much experience has taught Mr. Taylor to distrust such judgments, especially when delivered with the assurance of omniscience ; and he at once sought the opinion of an eminent counsel, which was as follows: -  '* I think Mr. Burman is entitled to maintain an action for the cutting of his hair and being forced to pick oakum ; and, probablv, for being obliged to wear the prison dress. There seems to oe no justification for the two former acts, and the regulations of 1865 implicitly recognise the right of a prisoner for debt to wear his own clothes. It may be a question whether the amount of resistance was such as to render the acts assaults, but I think slight evidence should be sufficient in the case of a person under duress as he was."  Proceedings were then commenced against the  Governor of Derby Gaol, and within the last week  the authorities finally caved in, and paid Mr..   Burman £20 as compensation for his illegal treatment, and all costs. Such is the price of being ** all right,'' according to Sir William Harcoart and his advisers at the Home Office I The prece- dent thus established is of importance as serving for warning, and for obtaining redress in similar cases of official misconduct.   " A Vaccination Disaster " at Darley , in the Northern District of the Derby Union, has been investigated by Dr. F. W. Barry, inspector to the Local Qovemment Board, with the result of censure of Mr. Wm. Legge, the public vaccinator, and his dismissal from office. On Sept. 13 Mr. Legge vaccinated a child named Edith Chalkley. The operation was followed by swellings and abscesses, from which she died on Nov. 13, the cause of death being certified as " Abscesses (two months). Exhaustion.'' Mr. Feltrup and other opponents of vaccination in Darby having called attention to the case, an inquiry was instituted, and the following was Dr. Barry's conclusion : -  "That Mr. Legge's method of transferring lymph by the needless intervention of tubes and glasses, his use of dirty instruments, his practice of using the same capillary tube over and over again, and his habit of storing lymph in unsealed tubes, afford numerous opportunities for the introduction of septic matter into vaccinifers and into children presented for vaccination. There is no direct evidence of the way in which septic infection was communicated to the child Chalkley, but there can be little doubt that it was inoculated into that particular child from some dirty appliance used by Mr. Legge.  ** That as public vaccinator be has rendered himself liable to grave censure for the erroneous entries in his register and for his manifold disobediences to the Board's instructions of July 29, 1871."  Few are the public vaccinators who obey the instructions of the Board. Dr. Guy, of Norwich, did not apparently recognise their existence. It is sometimes said that public vaccinators never vaccinate from unhealthy children; but Mr. Legge used children as vaccinifers, and neither examined their persons, nor asked any questions concerning their health, nor that of their parents. Jenner taught that the least eruption of the skin sufficed to modify, and even neutralise,  vaccination; but Mr. Legge vaccinated children suffering from eczema in the hope of curing eczema ! From a letter in the Derbi/shire Advertiser, we observe that Mr. Legge is furious over the judgment passed upon him. Dr. Barry is *'a youthful red-tapeist;'' he was vaccinating before Dr. Barry was born ; Dr. Barry has been coquetting with anti - vaccinators ; the dirty lancet was not dirty ; it belonged to   Abernethy, who died in 1831, and bore his honoured stains; and it was used to scratch and not to incise. Edith Chalkley's '^ death had nothing whatever to do with vaccination. It was a case of pure idiopathic erysipelas in an unhealthy child." And yet this unhealthy child Mr. Legge vaccinated! Mr. Legge's argument we perfectiy understand. We have heard it over and over again, times out of mind ; but its cogency draws near to exhaustion. Vaccination is in peril, and to save it from destruction, public vaccinators begin be to pitched overboard.   MR. COX AND THE PADDINGTON GUARDIANS.  The Rev. J. M. Cox, of 68, Elgin-road, St. Peter's-park, was again summoned before Mr. De Rutzen, at the Marylebone Police-court, on Jan. 22, for the non-vaccination of one of his children, and, as usual, accounted ably to the magistrate for his refusal to submit to the law. In the course of the proceedings, Mr. Dudman, the vaccination officer, observed that the Paddington Guardians "never prosecute more than once for each child," the custom likewise of the Camberwell Guardians. Thus, in two large metropolitan districts the Bill for the abolition of repeated penalties, which Sir Charles Dilke thinks the House of Commons cannot be persuaded to  5 ass, is in practical operation I After considerable iscussion the case terminated as follows : -  Mr. De Rutzen. - I always respect any one who has conscientioas objections, and 1 have no question as to your good fsdth ; but I have to administer the law as 1 find it, and it is not for me to say whether the law is right. Under the cir- cumstances, 1 will fine you lOs.  Mr. Dudman. - I must press for costs.  Mr. De Butzbn. - Thou let it be 8s. fine and 28. costs.  Mr. Dudman. - Unless the full fine of 208. is imposed, my Board will take further steps.  Mr. De Rutzen. - 1 do not care in the least what your Board may do. 1 shall do what 1 think proper.  In another case, that of Mr. J. C. Foulger, of 27, Maida Vale, Mr. De Kutzen also imposed a fine of 8d. and 28. costs.  It is to be hoped that Mr. Dudman spoke hastily, and that the Guardians may not be so unwise as to prosecute afresh because Mr. De Kutzen declines to interpret the law with unwarrantable severity.   An Honourable Annivebsabt. - In the British Friend for January we read under the announcements of Births the following : - " Milneb. Ninth Month, 9th, 1882. Guliekna, wife of Robert Aisop Milner, a son, who was named Philip Arthur. born on the anniversary of his father's release from York Castle as a Guardian of the Poor, Whetfe seyen Gruardians were imprisoned for not prosea^ting defaulters under the Vaccination Acts ib. 1876." "^ •   smallPOX DISPLACED AND REPLACED :  Dr Watt'b Discovery-Glasgow, 1813. By William White.  [A Paper read at the Monthly Conference of the London Society for the Abolition of Compnlsory Vaccination, Jan. 22, 1883.]  ADDBKSsma the House of Commons in 1878, Sir Thomas Chambers said, '< you cannot show that vaccination has reduced deaths, or saved a single life. There may be no smallpox, but the disap- pearance of smallpox is by no means equivalent to a reduction of mortality." M.P.'s were astonished and incredulous; but ignorantly. The fact is incontestable ; and Dr. Robert Watt, of Glasgow, had the signal diatinction of detecting and setting it forth in the year 1813.*  Watt was writing a treatise on chincough, otherwise whooping-cough, and in the course of his work made a careful examination of the registers of death in Glasgow, to ascertain how far it was true " that the disease was more fatal some years than others ; that it was more dan- gerous at a particular age ; and that the female sex suffered more from it than the male ; " and from the outset of his investigation, " was struck by the immense numbers carried as yearly by the smallpox." He might well be struck ; for Glasgow was a rare place for smallpox, as appears from the following statement compiled from Watt's tables:-  Deaths in Glasgow for Ten Years, 1783-1792.  Children Children Total, under under all T"vo. Ten. Ages.  GG 153 479 719 1,413  1 13 671 877 1,623 34 576 74t 1,552  2 173 706 941 1,622 23 57 746 1,016 1,802  1 17 770 1,059 1,982  23 45 794 1,058 1,753  33 177 903 1,236 1,866  4 117 984 1,367 2,146  53 68 66 i 902 1,848   Tear.   1783 1784 1785 1780 17S7 1788 1789 1790 1791 1792   From  smallpox .  . 155  . 425  . 218  . 348  . 410  . 399  . 360  . 336  . 607  . 202   M-les.^-g,-^^'   Total 3,466 211 854 7,293 9,919 17,607  The succeeding ten years, 1793-1802, repeat much the same tale, with, however a diminution of mortality in an increasing population, and a decrease in smallpox, with an increase in measles and whooping-cough, thus : - Deaths in Glasgow foe Ten Years, 1793-1802.  Total,  an A^es.  112 51  180  00 I 662 797  76 ; 586 884  98 ' 642 864  95 ; 783 1,105  27 I 545 716  125 494 766  90 544 985    From   Year.  SmaU- 1 pox.  Heasle  1793 .  .. 389  5  1791 .  .. 235  7  1795 .  .. 402  46  1796 .  .. 177  92  1797.  .. 354  5  1798.  .. 309  3  1799.  .. 370  43  1800 .  .. 257  21  1801 .  .. 245  8  1802 .  .. 156  168  Total  2,894  398   n,^"": ! Children Children  ^^?Ju^ under under Cough. . Two. Ten.  807 1,126 553 759 761 1,0482,045 1,445 1,901 1,369 1,662 1,603 1,906 1,550 1,434 1,770   6,277 9,060 16,685   into the BelatiTe Mortally of the Principal   •"Anlnqn.^  DisetMS 9t Children, and the numbers who have died under   Considering these figures, said Watt : -  " I remarked that the deaths by smallpox were chiefly in infancy ; hence the deaths under two or three years of age bore a very great proportion to the whole deaths in the city. Taking an average of several years, I found that more than half the human species died before they were ten years of age, and that of this half more than a third died of the small"pox ; so that nearly a fifth part of all that were oom alive perished by this dreadful malady.''  Watt meant, of course, the human species as exhibited in Glasgow, of whom more than half died before the age of ten, and a fifth of small* pox. What was true for a time of Glasgow smallpox was not even true of Edinburgh, much less of the whole earth.  Variolation was practised in Glasgow, but to what extent appears to be unknown. Certain, however, it is that smallpox was as little dreaded as are other calamities accounted common and unavoidable. Indeed, many were not unwilling to subject their offspring to the disease at seasons supposed to be favourable, on the principle of '' getting a bad job over.'* Then, too, the mass of the population were disposed, as if by design, for the generation of febrile ailments. Tall buildings, forming narrow lanes, wynds, or closes, issued like so many rents, or fissures, from the leading thoroughfares. These building were divided into fiats, packed with humanity from basement to attic. Air and light were treated as superfluities. Water there was none, save what was brought from wells ; and middens received the slops and refuse, often shot from the windows. Life in a Glasgow wynd in former days is indescribable - ^yea, almost inconceivable ; yet in such wynds multitudes passed their exis- tence, conscious of no hardship, recognising nothing better, and withal characterised by many virtues. Bearing such conditions in mindfy the vital statistics of Glasgow excite no surprise : the wonder is that the death-rate did not draw nearer to extermination. As for smallpox, how could a family resident in a flat in a noisome Glasgow close at the end of last century escape smallpox, if smallpox were prevalent? To them smallpox lay in fate, and was accepted on the same terms as wind and weather, summer and winter.  Novelties have always had a ready welcome in Glasgow, and when cheap and easy salvation from smallpox was proclaimed, there was a rush for it. smallpox abated: vaccination had the credit : and faith was justified. Considering the devastation smallpox had wrought among the young, Watt says : -  " I began to reflect how different the case must be now; and to calculate the great saving of human life that must have arisen from the Vaccine Inoculation. At this time [1813] above 16,000 had been inoculated publicly at the Faculty Hall, and perhaps twice or thrice that number in private practice. In eight years [1806-12] little more than COO had died in Glasgow of smallpox ; whereas in 1784 the deaths by that disease alone amounted to 426, and in 1791 to 607 ; which, on  Ten Tears of Age in Glasgow daring the last Thirtr Yean. Bf Robert Watt. M.D., Lecturer on the Theorr and on the Practice of Medicine in Glasgow, Glasgow, 1813. Pp. 9i,.   both occasions, exceeded the fourth of the whole deftths in the city for the year."  It seemed reasonable to infer that since the mortality from smallpox had so largely declined, fewer children must have died; but to Watt's astonishment the facts did not answer to the logic. He writes : -  *' To ascertain the real amount of this saving of infantile life, I turned up one of the later years, and, by accident, that of 1808, when, to my utter astonishment, I found that still a half, or more than a half, perished before the tenth year of their age; I could hardly believe the testimony of my senses, and therefore began to turn up other years, when I found that in all of them the proportion was less than in 1808; but still, on taking an average of several years, it amounted to nearly the same thing as at and former period during the last thirty years. This was a discovery I by no means expected, and how it could have come to pass appeared to me inexplicable.''  We shall better understand Watt's perplexity over smallpox reduced and death unaffected, u we set before us the table of mortality for the decade during which vaccination was brought into practice in Glasgow.  Deaths in Glasgow foe Ten Years, 1803-1812.   Total,  an Ages.  1860  1670  1671  1620  1806  2,623  2,124  2,111  2,842  2,348   Total... 1,013 1,655 1,151 7,120 10,913 20,175  To make the facts clear, let us bring the results of the three decades together : -  ^^•- BxSu-^x. Merles. ^Vho^^P^^  1783-1792 3,466 211 854  1793-1802 2,894 398 914  1803-1812 1,013 1,655 1,151  Children Children Total  Decade. under under Deaths,  Two. Ten. All Ages.  1783-1792 7,293 9,919 17,007  1793-1802 6,277 9,050 16,685  1803-1812 7,120 10,913 20,175  Before making any commentary on these remarkable figures, it may be well to attend to what Watt had to say concerninpr them. He was satisfied that vaccination arrested smallpox, but it was plain that it did not arrest death, and he felt bound to find some explanation : -  " From every circumstance that has come under my observation, the efficacy of Vaccine Inoculation appeared certain. The experience of pretty extensive practice had confirmed me fully in this opinion. But still the question recurred, how are we to account for the same, or nearly the same, number of deaths under ten years of ago? As       Chil-  Chil-   From   Whoop.  dren  dren  Tear.  small  Meaales.  inff Congn.  under  under   pox.   Two.  Two.  1803 ...  194  45  60  610  940  1804 ...  213  27  62  583  863  1805 ...  56  90  129  616  884  1806 ...  28  56  162  517  786  1807 ...  97  16  85  595  899  1808 ...  51  787  92  1,079  1,775  1809 ...  159  44  259  782  1,187  1810 ...  28  19  147  765  1,027  1811 ...  109  267  62  769  1,274  1812 ...  78  304  103  804  1,278   no new disease has appeared, the deficiency occasioned by the want of smallpox must have been made up by a mater mortality among the other diseases of children. Has it been equally divided among them, or has a greater share lallen to some than to others? To solve this question is the chief object of my inquiry.**  To ascertain the fact, he divided the thirty years, 1783-1812, into five periods of six years each, and thus set forth the average proportionate mortalities: -  Years. " ^(tm) Meadaa. Wh">P"S  • smallpox. "p"wo". Cough.  1783-1788 19-55 -93 451  1789-1794 18-22 117 513  1795-1800 18-70 210 5-36  1801-1806 8-90 8-92 612  1807-1812 3-90 1076 6-57  Children ChUdren Total  Years. under under Beaths,  Two. Tan. an AjRea.  1783-1788 39-40 53*48 9,994  1789-1794 42-38 5807 11,103  1795-1800 38-82 64-48 9,991  1801-1806 33-50 5203 10,034  1807-1812 35-89 5S-69 13,354  <'The first three of these periods, 1783-1800, had passed before the Vaccine Inoculation could have had any influence [observes Watt] ; in the fourth, 1801-1806, it had nearly reached its maxi- mum ; and in the last, 1807-1812, it may be said to have been pretty fully established, perhaps as much so as in any other city in the empire.**  Vaccination having been introduced to Ola^^gow to save life. Where was the salvation?  smallpox  had fallen off, but if its victims were merely assigned to other modes of death, where was the advantage? Watt continues : -  '^The first thing which strikes the mind on surveying the preceding Table is the vast dimi- nution in the proportion of deaths by the  smallpox  - a reduction from 10*55 to Sw per cent. ; out the increase in the measles column is still more remarkable an increase from *93 to 10*76 per cent. In the smallpox we have the deaths reduced to nearly a fifth of what they were twenty-five years ago, whilst, in the same period, the deaths by measles have increased more than eleven times. This is a fact so striking, that I am astonished it has not attracted the notice of older practitioners.  '^The greatest number of deaths from  smallpox  in any one month during the last thirty years was 114, in October, 1791. In the fol- lowing December the^ were 113. These are the only two instances in thirty years when the deaths by smallpox amounted to 100 in a month. But these were flight visitations when compared with the ravages which have been committed in an equally short time by measles. In May, 1803, the deaths by measles alone amounted to 259, in June to 260, and in July to 118. In December, 1811, they amounted to 101, and in the January following to 180. What an amazing difference when we compare these numbers with 483, the sum of all the deaths by measles in eighteen years preceding 1801 1 In the last five years 1,430 have died of measles in Glasgow.''  This prodigious increase in the mortality from measles was naturally referred by some observers   to the practice of vftcciDatioD, and Watt held there was ground for the assamption, inasmuch as when smallpox preceded measles it made measles milder : -  " When measles was so prevalent and fatal in 1808, 1 was often told that it was owing to the vaccine inoculation ; but this I consider an idle tale, the invention of those who were hostile to cowpox. I could readily admit that more must die of measles than formerly; for some of the weak and unhealthy, who would have died of smallpox (saved from smallpox) would fall a sacrifice to measles; but I could not then go farther.  " But, however novel and strange the opinion may appear, it must be admitted that while  smallpox  was in full force, it had the power of modi- ijing and rendering measles mildf ; and now that smallpox is in great measure expelled, measles is gradually coming to occupy the same ground. I am sorry to make this statement, but the facts, at least with regard to Glasgow, are too strong to admit of doubt. . . .  *^ That measles should have been modiGed by smallpox is rendered highly probable by the manner in which the vaccine disease prevents smallpox, or renders it so mild as to be without the smallest danger. May not  smallpox  have a similar effect in relation to measles ?  " When smallpox was in full force, few children escaped, and most of those who had smallpox and measles had smallpox first. This, I believe, will have been the case with more than ninetenths of the community. Still, however, as measles came round, it occasionally had precedence of smallpox, and it was, perhaps, chiefly among such patients that it proved fatal. In looking over the registers of former years, I find the deaths by measles were generally among very young children."  He was even disposed to believe that  smallpox , on the whole, exercised a beneficial influence m the eradication of latent disease : -  '' An opinion has prevailed with some, that vaccination does positive harm by infusing peccant or vicious humour into the constitution. I do not see the smallest ground for this hypothesis ; but that smallpox does good to those who survive the disease by rendering the system insus- ceptible of other infections, or by rendering them muder when incurred, must, I think be admitted. ... I do not presume that the constitution is improved by  smallpox , but perhaps by eradicating certain unooserved deviations from health, which, if not early removed by the accession of some acute disease, would have proved the seeds of early mortality by gaining a deeper hold of the constitution before measles and other epidemics of later appearance came round.  *^ In this point of view, we are not to consider smallpox as peculiarly fatal, but fatal merely as having the start of some other diseases. Measles, chincough, croup, and scarlet fever would have proved equally fatal had any of them occurred tirst. ... It is only on this principle that we can explain how it happened that thirty years ago not one in a hundred died of measles, whereas now one in ten dies. Thirty years ago as few escaped measles as now, but before they were   affected they had generally passed through  smallpox , by which the secondary disease was so modified as, to be almost completely divested of danger.''  Watt, it will be observed, treats smallpox throughout as a malady of childhood ; thus confirming Monro's observation in 1765, that ''the inhabitants of Scotland generally have smallpox in their infancy or childhood, very few adults being seen in the disease.''  From the preceding excerpts, it is not difficult to comprehend Watt's position. He was persuaded of the prophylaxy of vaccination ; he was satisfied that it had reduced smallpox  in Glasgow ; but, to his astonishment, he discovered that it had not reduced the general death-rate ; and that in so far as smallpox had been displaced, other ailments, and specially measIeS| had maintained the tale of fatality.  The discovery that the fall in smallpox was compensated for by a rise in deaths from other diseases was a remarkable discovery, the importance of which is as yet far from appreciated. Watt was, however, at fault in attributing the decline of smallpox in Glasgow to vaccination ; and in failing to inquire whether the phenomenon had any relation to vaccination whatever. He is the best sdentific demonstrator who most completely exhausts the possibilities to the contrary of what he seeks to establish. Supposing vaccination to be as powerful against smallpox as its promoters averred, the cause in Glasgow was not commensurate with the effect. Nowhere was vaccination more practised. Fifteen thousand were vaccinated at the Faculty Hall, says Watt, ""7irf, perhaps, twice or thrxce that number in private pracXice^ - a loose and questionable statement. The 15,000 operated on at the Faculty Hall in the course of ten years were the poor, the vast majority in Glasgow and elsewhere, and the chief sufferers from smallpox. The assumed " twice or thrice that number " were those who employed their own medical men - a luxury less common then than now. The population of Glasgow approached 100,000, and it is obvious that the larger part must have lived outside the fortification of the Jenneriaa rite.  But, admitting that all, or nearly all, in Glasgow were vaccinated who had not had  smallpox , still that wo^d afford no proof for what was claimed. Watt was cautious, and held closely by his Glasgow evidence, content to have it taken for what it was worth ; but, had he ranged wider, he would have discovered that the fall in smallpox extended over Europe, .and was as well marked in Vienna as in Glasgow, in Stockholm as in London, in Italy as in Denmark. As in Glasgow, the credit for the fall was claimed for vaccination, but the fall had set in before vaccination was heard of, and extended over populations to which vaccination had no application. Indeed Watt allows that the fatality of smallpox had begun to decline and that of measles to increase prior to the conveyemce of the Jennerian salvation to Glasgow ; but he failed to discern the signiticance of the fact. So, too, in other cities where smallpox fell off : the death-rate did not fall off; but, as in Glasgow, was kept up by cognate varieties of fever.  As concerns Watt, we have the advantage of.   some notes upon his ** remarkable treatise ** by Dr. William Farr, in the Thirtieth Annued Report of the Registrar-General, 1869. Having given an abstract of Watt's results, Dr. Farr observes of his discovery of displaced and replaced mortality :  *' This is an important point in pathology, and it must be admitted that although there were defects in his data, Dr. Watt succeeds in showing (1) that smallpox was one of the greatest causes of death in Glasgow down to the year 1800 ; (2) that the deaths by smallpox were reduced to a fifth of their original number by vaccination ; * and (3) that the children died in nearly the same numbers as before, but of other forms of disease.  " Glasgow has always been famous for statistics, and these, unfortunately, show an increase of the mortality of children. Thus, in the five years 1821-6 the mortality of boys under five years of age was 8*08 ; in 1831-6 it was 078. In the year 1865 the mortality of boys in Glasgow was 11*48, of girls, 10*36. These recent returns confirm the principle. smallpox is no longer so fatal as it was before vaccination was introduced. In Glasgow it caused in the year 1864 no longer 20 but 2 in 100 deaths- only 180 in 6,054 deaths, that is, 3 per cent, of the deaths under five years of age ; yet the mortality of children is certainly as high, probably higher, than it was in the last ten years of the lust century.  '^Compulsory vaccination in England has reduced further the fatality of smallpox, but since 1358 other diseases have so prevailed as to counterbalance the gain under this head. The mortality of children has not declined in a corresponding degree."  With confirmation under each authority, it is needless to enforce the validity and importance of Watt*s discovery. Dr. Farr is pleased to ascribe the subsidence of smallpox alike in England and Glasgow to vaccination, but he makes no effort to  Erove his case ; indeed the effort might have led im to recognise hismbtake. Referring to scarlet- fever, he shows how from a mild it has become a severe aiBliction : -  "Svdenham (d. 1689) describes simple scarlatina distinctly ; he does not refer to the throat affections, and says the patient can only die by the doctor's default. Joseph ¥T9§}i describes the disease as noto the most dreadful scourge in Europe."  If, then, scarlet fever has of itself acquired this terrible intensity and predominance, why should it be thought incredible that smallpox of itself should undergo correspondent mitigation and diminution? Or is it to be argued that  vaccination has extinguished smallpox to revive as scarlet fever?  Dr. Farr proceeds to observe : -  " It is singular that Dr. Watt, evidently a practitioner of great sagacity, does not at all navert to the wretched sanitary condition in which the increasing population of Glasgow lived at the time he 4a8 writing."  It is the observation of Dr. Farr that is singular. At the time when Watt wrote there   * An inference disputed, for reasons giren.   was no clear conception of the relation of condition to disease. Jenner was always writing about smallpox, yet there is not a hint in any of his papers as to its development in filth and stench. His own residence was a pesthouse, but it never entered into his head to ask why. Let us avoid anachronism. Those whose memory or readin? extends to the cholera epidemic of 1831-2 will know, that it was regarded as an inscratable visitation toward which humble submission was the proper attitude. A letter of Collins, the artist, to the Rev. R. A. Thorpe, Nov. 26, 1831, correctly expresses the common feeling. Referring to the cholera and the Reform Bill, he says : -  " Of the two scourges now afflicting us, I know not which is the worse, but I do know that we have fallen into the hands of God in both cases, and not before we deserved it."*^  I myself recollect the dismay the Combes excited in Scotland when they began to teach that we were largely responsible for our ailments, and that sickness and sanctity were an unwholesome alliance ; and how a pious physician remarked, when the prevalence of typhus in Glasgow had been denounced as disgraceful to the authorities, *^ We have learnt the truth in another school, and would shudder to impeach the Divine prerogative in life or in death." What Watt really thought of smallpox is to be found in a passage of his treatise which Dr. Farr must have overlooked. He says : -  "We may, it seems, by the permission of Divine Providence, deprive death of some of its apparently most efiicient means, but, deprived of these, new means are discovered, or the old improved.  " I cannot help quoting the following passage from Dr. Woolcombe as somewhat prophetic of this general result. Says he : -  " * May not the discovery of the cowpox, if it should ultimately effect the extermination of the smallpox, which it may do when the prejudices of mankind shall permit, be welcomed rather on account of its influence in diminishing human suffering, than on account of its effect in diminishing human mortality? Since disease is one of the appointed checks to excessive population, and the plan of Providence in the creation of human life requires the termination of the existence of one- third of its creatures before they have attuned the age of two years, it may be doubted whether the annihilation of so efficient an instrument as smallpox can be admitted without the substitution of some other equally destructive malady. The substituted malady may indeed be productive of less collateral affliction than the loathsome distemper whose place it supplies. But granting that no direct substitute should arise, it will not follow that disease in general will be deprived of its accustomed share in checking population ; and if it be not, the only difference will be in the  ?roportion of victims submitted to other disorders, 'he infant rescued from smallpox may be rescued only to perish in childhood by measles or scarlatina, or oe preserved to swell the list of youthful victims to the insatiate maw of consumption I ' ''f  * " Memoirs of William CoUins, B.A." by his Son. Vol. ii. p. 3.  t "Remarks on the Frequencv and FataUtr of Different DiseMes." 1809.   .Such was the manner in which Watt dealt with the problem of mortality. Sanitation had no place in his consideration. It was, he thought, the design of ProTidence to limit population, and if children were saved from smallpox, they would be cut off otherwise; and the statistics of Glasgow confirmed the opinion. smallpox had abated, but funerals were numerous as ever. The uniformity of the mortality we admit, but no longer ascribe it to Proyidence intent on the limitation of population. If children die, it is not of fate, but from the ignorance, or indif- ference, or wickedness of those who are responsible for them.  Still some may object, ''If by vaccination or any other means smallpox is got rid of, should we not to that extent save life? The answer is, No. Life is onl^ extensible in so far as improvement is effected m the conditions of life. Forms of disease are subject to modification ; they are probably convertible and interchangeable ; one form comes as another goes ; but conditions remaining the same, the crop of death is equal. Hence Mr. Edwin Chadwick s advice :-  ''Keep your eye on the death-rate. Let nothing short of its reduction satisfy you. There may be no startling outbreak of tnis fever or of that fever; but if the death-rate is unabated, there can be no improvement that ought to satisfy you. The death-rate is the test of sanitary progress. Keep, therefore, your eye on the death- rate."  Thus it was that though smallpox subsided in Glasgow, no lives were saved ; for, no change for the better having taken place in the condition of the inhabitants, the means of death were merely transferred to other agencies. As Dr. Farr observes : -  " The Glasgow victims were gathered together from all quarters, from the llighlands, from Ireland, and from elsewhere ; they were lodged in conditions unsuitable to human life. ... To render them unassailable by the matter of  smallpox  was not enough, for it left them exposed to the other forms of disease. Thus, in a garden where the flowers are neglected, to keep off thistle- down merely leaves the ground open to the world of surrounding weeds.  "To operate on mortality, protection against every one of the fatal zymotic diseases is required ; otherwise the suppression of one disease-element opens the way to another."  Dr. Farr thus exactly expresses what I wish to enforce. Whether smallpox prevail or disappear is of little importance. What is of importance is the prevalence of disease and death, and not the presence or absence of any special factor when the total result is constant and the measure of violated physiological laws. it is true that Dr. Farr recognises a virtue in vaccination, but on much the same terms that obeisance is rendered to a fetish. Vaccination might be struck out of his arguments without affecting his conclusions. How, for example, could the facts with their rationale be better stated than in these his words ? : -  '^ Out of 1,000 born in Liverpool, 618 children w"re destroyed in the first ten years of their life,   some by smallpox, many by measles, scarlatina, whooping cougn, many by typhus and enteric fever ; one disease prevailing in one year, another disease prevailing in another, btU stiu yielding the like fatal results. This represents what Dr. Watt found at Glasgow long ago. Out of 1,000 children born in London, 361 died under ten years of age by zymotic diseases and other causes ; the deaths are less by 167 than the deaths in Liverpool. How much less is the loss of life by these diseases in the healthy districts of England i There, out of 1,000, only 206 children die in the first ten years of life. The enormous difference cannot be ascribed to vaccination, as common in town as in country ; the protection of life against smallpox alone leaves it still at the mercy of the danj^erous diseases of the insalubrious dty."  Death from disease in insalubrious circumstances is but part of the mischief. Those who survive find their energies enfeebled and depressed in the struggle for survival. The time must surely come when smallpox and all allied forms of disease will be accounted discreditable and intolerable, and when their occurrence will be taken for notes of warning and command to search for and root out their causes. Then, too, magical preventives and palliatives and medical cures will have a very different place in the popular imagination.  Jenner read Watt s pamphlet, and, more suo, the wretched creature failed to discern its scope and significance, seeing in it a malevolent aggres- uon upon his interest in vaccination. He wrote to Moore from Cheltenham, Dec. 6, 1813 : -  " You probably mav not have seen a pamphlet lately puolished by Dr. Watt, as there is nothing in its title that develops its purport or evil ten' dency. Measles, it seems, has been extremely fatal in Glasgow for the last four or five years among children, and during this period vaccination has been practised almost universally. Previously to this, measles was considered a mild disease. Hence Dr. Watt infers that smallpox is a kind of ffre* parntive for measles, rendering the disease more mild. In short, he says, or seems to say, that we have gtuned nothing by the introduction of cowpox; for that measles and smallpox have now changed places with regard to their fatal tendency. Is not this very shocking? Here is a new and unexpected twig shot forth for the sinking Anti- Vaccinist to cling to."*  Observe, the truth of Dr. Watt's evidence was passed over ! Inasmuch as it did not tend to the glory of vaccination, it was " evil," and it was " shocking." At a later date Baron assumed the same line, saying : -  " Notwithstanding the proofs of the power of Vaccination in diminishing the mortality from smallpox, it has been a question whether infantile mortality has been diminished; it having been supposed that the beneficial effects of vaccination were countervailed by a greater mortality in the other diseases of children . This very discouraging statement was published by Dr. Watt, of Glasgow ; and the opinion, which was hastily adopted and unwisely promulgated, has unquestionably had a great effect in retarding the progress of  vaccination. It, unfortunately, gave countenance to some  • BMoa'a " Life of J"iuier/' roL, a, p. Wit   of the worst prejudices of those who were opposed to the practice."*  Here again we see no attempt made to disprove Wattes statement ; whilst its mischievousness was assumed because it was '^ discouraging:/' and lent " countenance to some of the worst prejudices of those who were opposed to vaccination ** I Truth is the best of all things- except when it spoils business. Then it becomes "evil" and "shocking," and " gives countenance to the worst prejudices."  Finally, vaccination is an attempt to swindle Nature. The vaccinator says, " Come, my little dear, come and let me give you a disease, wherewith I shall so hoax Nature that henceforth you may live in what filth and stench you please, and smallpox shall not catch you." But can Nature be swindled? - can Nature be hoaxed? Mr. Lowell, in praising the genius of Cervantes, says, " There is a moral in * Don Quixote,* and a verv profound one it is - that whoever quarrels with Nature, whether wittingly or unwittingly, is certain to get the worst of it." There is sometimes an apparent triumph over Nature. We have done wrong, and we fancy we have evaded the penalty; but ere long we discover, to our dismay, that punishment was only staved off, and that in the end we have to account for the uttermost farthing. I read the other day of Marshal de Matignon, who ordered his steward to clear away the ruins of an old castle which, in the Marshal's opnion, spoilt the appearance of his ^rounds. The man asKed humbly where he should put the huge mass of antique masonry. " Dig a hole and put it in," said the Marshal, promptly. " But," said the argumentative hireling, '' where am I to put the earth that comes out of the hole?" The man of quality lost patience. " Fool 1" he roared, " dig a hole big enough to hold it all." That, said I, is  vaccination in (Ulegory. By a dodge it is attempted to get rid of the consequences of ill-living, whilst persisting in ill-living ; but if we did get rid of smallpox in such wise, the consequences would confront us in some other form . Vaccination having failed, we are adjured to try re-vaccination ; but that is merely to repeat the absurdity of digging a bigger hole. No, smallpox and its alternative fevers can only be got rid of by sanitation - by the old-fashioned prescription, " Wash you, make you dean ; cease to do evil ; learn to do well." The lesson seems hard to learn, and still harder to practise ; but there is no evading performance if we would be healthy and happy. All dodges to avoid performance Uke that of vaccination are bound to come to naught, and to do us cruel mischief in the attempt. As Hosea Biglow says : -  " You hev gnfc to git up airly Ef you want to take in God."  The Monthly Conference of the London Society will be held at 1 14, Victoria Street, Westminster, on Monday evening, February 19, at 7.30 o'clock, when Dr. Browning, Medical Officer of Health for Rotherhithe, will read a paper on " Animal Vaccination," to be followed, as usual, by discussion.  • Baron's " Life of Jenner," toI. ii., p. MS.   OUR ADVERSARIES AND OURSELVES.  At a recent debate on the vaccination question at St. James's Hall, one or more of the defenders of the popular prescription pointedly referred to what they were pleased to call the common practice of anti-vaccinators to use intemperate language, particularly when alluding to^ the medical profession. Now if this was a solitary or exceptional charge, it would not be worth while taking up valuable space by referring to it, but it is one that is consUntiy preferred at public meetings and reiterated in the Press, and there are many fair-minded persons who are of the opinion that it is not altogether without foundation. In public debate this is what would be termed unparliamentary language, and such language, strictly speaking, is never justifiable. Our opponents when making this allegation are evidently of the opinion that these transgressions of the laws of politeness and good taste are all on our side, and that the conduct of the- advocates of vaccination is at all times irreproachable. Such persons (may I venture to affirm ?) are not very well posted as to what appears in the public journals, or perhaps they find it convenient to shut their eyes when they come across the unseemly exhibitions of discourtesy. It may be remembered that Dr. Andrew Clark in his admirable introductory address at the debate with Dr. W. B. Carpenter a year ago, charged both sides with equal culpability in this regard. As the sub- ject has been so frequently raised, and raised quite recently, it is only fair to our friends as well as to our opponents, that the true facts of the case should be known, and an erroneous, but widely- prevailing impression, corrected. It is no exaggeration to affirm that the vulgarity which our opponents pretend to see in us, they have themselves been guilty of in an intensified form ; for during the past twenty years an inexhaustible supply of epithets far outstripping the wildest of our much-persecuted and sorely- afflicted friends and fellow-workers, have been showered upon our devoted heads. These angry epithets, indeed, or rather these insidious substitutes for argument, have been so persistent that, like the bull-frops with the brick-bats of the boys, we have got qmte used to them, and have learnt to regularly expect them. It is perhaps a year since Mr. Talbot, M.P., in a deliberate speech before the members of the Metropolitan Asylums Board stigmatised this Society as "A Murder League," "."., that we, by discountenancing the enforcement of vaccination were killing our ofiE- spring, and others of malice prepense, or worse than the Thugs of India, who kill without malice. After this, the ordinary epithets, that we are " ignorant fanatics," " anti-vaccination idiota," " obstinate fools," " wicked agitators,'' and " enemies of mankind," fall com|)aratively harm- less. Dr. Benjamin Barrow, J uatice of the Peace, Mayor of Ryde, and President of the British Medical Association, in answer to a polite communication from our Secretary, in August, 1881, described our association as "a disgrace to humanity." Mr. Ernest Hart, the unmitigated apostle of vaccination, says : " It is singular and significant that none of the opponents of vaccination are able to discuss the subject without   THE VACCINATION tNQtTIRfiR   l81   RCCUBiDg those who believe in its heneficent iDfluencea of mala fdesP And Mr. Charles Dickens, who, while publishing a series of oftrefuted fables in support of vaccination, when courteously asked to permit a reply through the columns of his weekly journal, replied with fas- cinating illiberality, '^ I look upon the anti-vaccination people as a band of noisy and mischievous fanatics, impervious to reason, and not to be reached by argument, with whom I decline to enter into discussion/' Dr. Alfred Carpenter, at the Worcester Conference of the British Medical Association, characterised our fdthful and disinterested associates as follows: ''Those mis- chievous individuals who prey upon the weak minds of those who find the funds for the anti- vaccination craze, and who provide the funds to pay the salaries of those whose interest it is to keep that wicked agitation alive." The Birming- ham Morning News says : " The Anti- Vaccination League are quacks, ignorant or fools. Every child not properly marked is a walking bag of pestilence ; and every parent refusing to have his or her child vaccinated is a public enemy, and should be treated as such " [t.e., I suppose, handed over to Mr. Marwood]. And so respectable a journal as the Spectator, while freely admitting all the oft-repeated fallacies of pro-vaccinators, and religiously excluding all replies, has, at an earlier era in this controversy , not scrupled to tell its readers that the anti-vaccination agitators were composed of two or three scoundrels, and a great many fools, and about a year ago, justified its rigorous cloture upon our views on theT ground that it was a subject upon which '^ opinion was made up." When the present Government cnme into power they brought in a Bill - described by Mr. John Bright as an eminently just measure, to abolish the cumulative penalties for non-vaccination. A number of petitions were presented against it - all emanating from one source and amongst these was one prepared by Mr. Ernest Hart, and signed by several thousand members of the British Medical Association, which contained the following amiable paragraph : ''That the outcry against compulsory vaccination is mainly due to certain interested persons, who, by the dissemination of inflammatory literature, and by the propagation of falsehoods and distorted statements, stir up opposition to vaccination, on the part of ignorant and thoughtless people."  It is not worth while to reply to these choice epithets, and unmerited accusations, hurled by our opponents at the disinterested men and women who have so long devoted their time, resources, and energies to this thankless but beneficent conflict agidnst state medicine. The celebrated Helmholtz says: ''Those who cannot give any decisive reasons to their opponents are usually not very polite in their controversy. One's own success may be approximately estimated by the increasing virulence of their replies." If I may venture a suggestion, it is, that we should have a truce to this mode of dialectical warfare and henceforth leave to our opponents a monopolar of intemperate epithets and scornful vituperation. Yet if ever irony, satire, and open scorn were justifiable and praiseworthy, surely it is now, when the vaccine theory is receiving the wildest extension, when, in the Royal Academy of   Medicine of Belgium, this November, Dr. Burggraeve is proposing the vaccination of puppies against the distemper, and Dr. Worlo- mont praises the prophylactic virtue of horsepox and vaccine pommade ; while the indefatigable Pasteur school are recommending their diluted viruses for zymotic diseases, and when whooping^ough, and even consumption itself, under the cloak of pretended "science," are openly included in the list of threatened compulsions. A hundred years hence, the scholar whose research is directed to the social hiibits of the mneteenth century, will read of the profes- sional welcome given to the proposal to vaccinate into every child a mild form of each of the zymotic diseases, and will recoil with surprise and contempt. AV. T.   COURTEOUS COMMUXICATIOXS.  LETTEns are occasionally posted to Victoria Street bearing odd addresses. Here, for example, is an envelope containing some tracts -  ** To Mr. Wm. Young, Secretary oif "thk London Society for the Propagation  "of smallPox."  And here is a copy of a post-card -  "7a, Wyndham-place, Brynnston-squarc, W.,  "Jan. 18, 1883.  " To the Secretary of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory  vaccination .  " To my mind, the person who offers obstacles to carefully -performed Vaccination, is a blockhead - or MUST be a murderous and nnscrnpalous knave. Too many such rascals are, I fear, to be found in my profession.  " A. H. Blake, "L.S.A., L.R.C.P. Ed., M.R.C.S., L.M.H.C.S., &c,**  If it pleases Mr. Blake to amuse himself in this way, we do not think Mr. Young can object.   A Lancashire Band. - At Failsworth, on January 16th, six anti'vaccinators were sum- moned. Mrs. Bydings said her child was well and hearty, and she did not think it would be improved by  vaccination . Mrs. Whittaker said she thought vaccination was wrong, and she would not have it done. Mr. Heape, one of the justices, interposed : - " We are not each of us to set up our own ideas of what is right and wrong " ; whereon it was inquired : - " Whose ideas, then, are we to set up ? Tours, Mr. Heape ? ** Mrs. Nixon said sho was not going to have her child vaccinated. She had a child who had suffered much from vaccination, and she would not repeat the mistake. Mr. Bromley said he had no desire whatever to see his child vaccinated ; and Mrs. Nixon, representing Mr. Wm. Smith in his absence, said that was his desire too. Mr. Dewhurst protested that he was not going to have his strong child inoculated with what was indescribable save as virus - that was poison. Mr. Heapo again interposed, " If you think the law is wrong, you should try to get it altered " ; to which Mr. Dewhurst replied, " That is just what we are doing ! Was ever a bad law altered, if those who thought it bad did not set themselves against it ? " In the end, an order to vaccinate, with costs, with- in fourteen days was made upon each defendant..   THE GREAT PANIC AT THE CAPE OF  GOOD HOPE.  At a meeting of the smallPox Vigilance Committee in the town of Port Elizabeth, on Nov. 2, it was resolved that the doctors be asked whether infection can come in bag-stuffs, casks, and cases by sea. The doctors replied that it might, - ** The disease has been conveyed when the only means of communication were by letters and goods." Dr. Ross said the clothes of a person who had been in contact with the infection might, by touching a bale of ^oods, convey the disease to a third person. " The disease might be conveyed by flies wno had touched pustules.*' Dr. Stroud said the " germs " might remain active for years. He recommended fumigation of cargo, as twenty-one days would not remove danger of contagion. Mr. Brister said the Chamber of Commerce had decided that twenty-one days detention of cargo was sufficient.  On the 10th Nov. a Kaffir was charcred with travelling on the railway without a ti(^et from Uitenhage to Port Elizabeth.  His Worship : You were sick and have come from Uitenhage. Have you got the smallpox ? - Prisoner: Not at all. I was only sick from drink.  Constable Bishop said the man was found drunk in a carriage.  His Worship : Did you fumigate him ? - Constable : AVe fumigate all passengers from Uitenhage.  His Worship: You nearly fumigated me to death; for I felt quite giddy after the operation. You will kill some one with your mode of fumigation one of these days.  At a Council Meeting at Cape Town, Councillor Woodhead asked how many of the dead  smallpox  patients had been vaccinated. The Mayor replied that unfortunately they had not arrived at any accurate statistics on the subject.  On Oct. 7, smallpox was reported to be decreasing at Cape Town. Chicken-pox, scarlatina, and fever were prevalent, " arising from the dirty condition of the town."  At Port Elizabeth, between nine and ten at night, all the dirty slops are thrown into the street.  Uitenhage. - "Those who are down of the disease are Kaffirs of the lowest type, whose huts are always in a filthy state. The native who was quarantined has been released, as he was merely suffering from the effects of vaccination, not from smallpox.  In the Lazaretto at Uitenhage thirty had been admitted, eleven had died, and eleven were under treatment; the mortality being "heavy." At Port Elizabeth a Malay female living with her brother fell ill of smallpox. She objected to bebg taken to the Lazaretto, and her brother was also unwilling to let her go. At a meeting of the Vigilance Committee. Mr. Solomon said the case was known at nine o clock in the morning, and it was three o'clock before and steps were taken. " This man had got a woman m his house suffering from smallpox and refused to let her be removed. The woman would not go to the Lazaretto.'' Dr. Stroud said, "if the woman has not been vaccinated, we can make her go to the Lazaretto at once." Mr. Marks said she had been vaccinated   twice, Mr. Solomon said they ought not to allow a medical man to walk about the town after having attended a smallpox patient. The Committee adjourned tUl next day, when Mr. Solomon said a man suffering from a serious complaint had been found in a house where people were living together like sardines packea in a box. Dr. Stroud Jsaid if they did not do something smallpox would be sure to multiply. A depution was tnerefore appointed to wait upon the Town Council.  In Cape Colony lar^e numbers of vaccinated persons have fallen ill, m manv cases shortly after vaccination. Belief is accordingly waning, and there is the usual discordance of opinion between those who maintain that the disease is caused by "germs " which remain active for rears, and those who hold that it is caused by filth. Defective sewage arrangements, overcrowding, and rapid accumulation of a low-class population, are producing the evils they have produced in all ages.  On some important matters concerning public health, we, as a nation, are at the present moment marching backwards. In the reign of George I. (1721) the ministry obtained powers to Durn and sink English vessels bringmg goods from Turkey, because the plague existed there. Two ships from Cyprus were actually burnt, and Parliament allowed a sum not exceeding £23,935 for compensation. It was alleged in the Commons that the plague occurred every year in Turkey ; but a retort was ready : - This was such a "peculiar" plague. In modem state-medical language, its ** germs " were specially malevolent. A difficulty arose when a member suggested that goods and infection might easily be brought in by smugglers. Smuggling was common and irrepressible; the objection was weighty; it was therefore conveniently ignored.  Some few years ago the Memoirs of Charles Greville, clerK to the Privy Council, were published. We may there read that in 1831 cholera was discovered at Higa, where a large fleet of English vessels lay. "The newspapers were full of letters and lies. We (the Privy Council) sent for Sir Henry Halford and asked him whether the disease could be conveyed by goods? He said No." Mr. Greville continues : - " All the evidence  E roves that goods will not convey cholera; but we ave appointed a Board of Health which is contagionist, and we cannot get them to subscribe to that opinion. We dare not act without its sanction, and so we are obliged to air goods. In Paris there have been 1,300 sick in a day. In London, the average is only 50. Is it not owing (says Mr. Greville) to our superior cleanliness, draining, etc.?"  Newly-revived mediaeval superstitions tell us that the troops of unvaccinated children in Leicester will present an irresistible attraction to the myriads of unseen and long-lived smallpox "germs," who, like vultures, scent their prey from afar, and whose legions, when once admitted through our legislative "vaccination defences," will pour into the trenches and assail alike the protected and the unprotected, without distinction of rank or ag^e or sex. This is the creed of faces blanched with fear - of minds brought up in entire ignorance of the most elementary laws of health. Epidemic disease.   THE VACCINATION INQITIRER.in all its forms, is guided by forces as striDgent as those which guide the planets. To some extent, it seizes upon infancy rather than upon mature age ; to a greater extent, it selects the poor in preference to the rich ; and to the fullest extent it scours the dens of intemperance and filthy and delivers its death-warrant with precision and certainty. Cleanliness and temperance are the truest safeguards. Relying upon these, the anti-vaccinator scouts the doctrine that bags and casks, or even letter-carriers, are distributors of nature's judgments upon human imbecility. He seeks no imaginary protection from calf or cow. He admits no saving virtue in his neigh- bour's complaints. He is no blind follower of a blind leadership. He refrains from invading his neighbour's nursery, and asks in return that his own may be permitted to repose in peace.  H. D. Dudgeon.   ORDER TO VACCINATE INFANTS IN WORK- HOUSES, AND TO PAY FOR THE SAME.  Local Government Board, Whitehall, S.W. January 27, 1881. Sir, - I am directed by the Local Government Board to state that their attention has been called, in connection with the state of vaccination and the present prevalence of smallpox in the metropolis, to the largo proportion of children who, having been born in the workhouses, are discharged, with their mothers, before being vaccinated, and many of whom escape vaccination altogether, because the vaccination officer has no means of tracing them.  1. The Board are desirous of being informed, as regards the several Workhouses and Poor-Law Infirmaries in the metropolis, how many children were born in each during the year 1880, and how many of those so born were discharged before being vaccinated, or before the vaccination had been as- certained to be successful. And I am to request that you will have the goodness to furnish the Board with this information as respects any such Poor-law establishment under the control of the Guardians.  2. I am, at the same time, to state that some Boards of Guardians have passed a resolution, requiring the medical officer, subject to the exercise of his judgment as to making exceptions in parti- cular cases, to secure the vaccination of all children born in the workhouse, as soon as possible after birth J and it has been found practicable, as a rule, to vaccinate the children when six days old, and to inspect the results on the thirteenth day, as the mothers, in each cases, rarely leave the workhouse within a fortnight after their confinement.  The Board would be glad to learn whether the Guardians have adopted this practice.  3. The Board also request that they may be informed whether a specific fee is paid to the Medical Officer of each Workhouse Infirmary for every vaccination or re-vaccination successfully performed by him.  I am, sir, your obedient servant,  John Lambert, Secretary. To the Clerk of the Guardians of - .   Norwich. - It is rornarked in tlio Lancet of Jan. 13, that during the past year not one death from smallpox was recorded in Norwich. How many deaths resulted from vaccinafioji none can tell. The late public inquiry proved four at least.   PROTEST AGAINST LARGE MARKS. A PUBLIC vaccinator, writing in 'the British Medical Journaly Deo. 9, observes : - " The statement that the protection from smallpox depends on the area of scars, thougb supported by statistics, is a pure fallacy, and has done more to make vaccination a bugbear than all the outcry of the an ti- vaccinators. The order to cover a child's arm with pustules in not only inhuman, but it is useless. I believe an excessive amount of inflammation, as is caused by a large area of pustules, does more to damage the protective quality of the vaccination than to improve it. Vaccine virus is known to be capable of unlimited auto-multiplication. The pustule is only developed when the virus has taken hold of the system, and is the evidence that the vaccinia has been developed. The lymph taken from a case in which one small pustule only has been developed, gives as good, if not better, results than the lymph taken from large and more inflamed pustules, showing that the system has been brought under the influence of vims ; and that is what is required. I am of opinion that the present system of prizes for proficiency in vaccination should be done away with ; and, if a prize is given, let it be given to the vaccinators who have the fewest number of cases in which secondary mischief has resulted, such as erysipelas, prolonged sore arms, syphilis (if this is a possible result), &c.   LONDON WORKHOUSE VACCINATION.  Death Certified by Coroner's Inquest.  Dr. G. Danford Thomas, coroner for Central Middlesex, held an inquest at Islington, on January 11, concerning the death of Lilian Ada, the daughter of Charlotte Williams, born in St. Pancras Workhouse on December 8, 1882. A week after the child was born the nurse took it away, with other babies, to be vaccinated, the poor mother, a girl of 18, thinking " it was not her place ** to protest. The child was an eight months' baby. She left the workhouse on December 23, and five days afterwards, finding the babe's arm swollen from the elbow to the fingers, she took it to Dr. Chalmers, of 43, Caledonian-road. he attended it with great kindness until Sunday morning (Jan. 7), when it died.  Dr. Ballard intimated that he was present to watch the case on behalf of the Local Government Board.  Dr. Chalmers. - When the child was brought to me it was in a semi- comatose condition, and had been ill for days. It was a small, delicate child, and had two large vaccine marks about the size of a shilling on one arm, which was much swollen. I instructed the mother to dress the marks on the arm, and they got somewhat better in appearance, but the infant got worse day by day, its comatoso condition increasing. At first I was inclined to think that death resulted from the depressing effects of vaccination ; but subsequently the post- mortem examination revealed suppurative meningitis, caused, I have little doubt, by the absorptioiL of pus from the ulcerated arm.  The Coroner. - Do you think the child was unfit to be vaccinated ?  Dr. Chalmers. - The child was healthy j the mother was in good health ; but considering the delicacy of the infant, it was wholly unsuitable for the operation. The vaccination of newly-born children is always hazardous, and should never be attempted without extreme circumspection. In this case it should certainly have been postponed.thS Vaccination iNQUiRfiR.   Dr. Pepper, r.R.C.S. - In conjunction with Dr. Chalmers, I made the post-mortem examination. The body only weighed 3 lb. 13 oz. There was no eruption, save what was due to vaccination, nor were there any syphilitic appearances. Pus coyered the brain. The immediate cause of death was inflammation of the membranes of the brain, due, there is lifctle doubt, to the absorption of poisonous matter from the wound in the arm.  The Coroner. - Do you then believe the vaccination was premature ?  Dr. Pepper. - Certainly. In such cases  vaccination should have been postponed.  The Coroner (to Dr. Ballard). - Do you see any objection to the estrly vaccination of children ?  Dr. Ballard. - Not a bit. [Characteristic, his reply, and worth bearing in remembrance.]  Dr. DuNLOP. - As Medical Officer of St. Pancras Workhouse, I vaccinated the child when it was seven days old. It is the custom to vaccinate newly-bom children, lest the mothers should leave the House and be lost sight of. Without the mother's consent [which is not asked] a child cannot be vaccinated until it is three months' old.  In the result, the jury found that the death was caused by suppurative meningitis, following ulceration of vaccine vesicles on the arm, and they were of opinion, from the results of the post-mortem examination, that the vaccination of the child ought to have been postponed.   ANOTHER CASE AT NOTTINGHAM.  Carrie Chasey, aged 11 weeks, daughter of Robert and Caroline Chasey, 5, Hewthome-terrace, Briar Street, Nottingham, was on Tuesday, Deo. 12, vaccinated by Dr. Walter Hunter, Crocus Street, Nottingham. This child was, according to the testimony of the parents, and by the admission of the doctor, a perfectly healthy child when vaccinated. The day after vaccination a blister ap- peared on the arm, and broke and spread till a cluster of blisters was formed. It was in much pain every day till the following Monday, when the doctor was sent for. Mrs. Chasey asked him what was amiss with her child, and asked if vaccination had not caused it. He replied that he was not such a fool as to deny it. On Tuesday the father, seeing bad discolouration of the face, exclaimed, " This child is blood poisoned ; it's a case with her any minute." By Thursday it was in such a fearful state that a neighbour wont for Mr. Robert Hacking, an an ti- vaccinator, to come and see it. It was then evidently dying. I went to see it on Friday, and again on Saturday afternoon, and saw it die, when to ordinary eyes it appeared a mass of corruption from head to foot. The doctor that evening gave a certificate of death from " General Eczema," but being dissatisfied with such a misleading " cause of death," a few of us forced an inquest and pogt-mortem examination, which elicited the following verdict : - " Deceased came to her death from exhaustion, the result of erysipelatous inflammation or eczema, caused by erysipelas attacking the point of vaccination ; and that vaccination was the exciting cause of the dilease in this case ; but there is no evidence that any poisonous matter was used in the vaccination."  The doctors, although they exercised their utmost ingenuity of sophistry to prove that vaccination, though apt at any time to be '* an exciting cause of disease in any one predisposed to that disease," was still perfectly innocent of harm, had to admit   that Carrie Chas>ey might never have had this disease had she not been vaccinated. If over any one and every one vaccinated hangs the appalling possibility of a fatal disease being " excited," and no earthly care or wisdom can predict where or when it may fall, then to ordain that all shall submit to so awful a risk is simply to legalise murder. F. Scrimshaw.  Radford, Nottingham, Dec. 28.   Recurrent Variola. - During the recent epi- demic, a man 89 years of age was admitted to the Wynberg smallPox Hospital, and it was the fifth occasion of his being attacked by variola. - Tort Elizabeth Telegraphy Dec. 9.  The Rev. Bennett Blakoway, Vicar of Horton, near Leek, was fined 5s. and costs for neglectini^ to have his child Rhoda vaccinated. Mr. Blake way did not appear. He had stated a month ago in court that he could not comply with the order, having conscientious objections to the operation.  Moses and his Mother. - A few days ago, in a school in Lusatia, the master, after relating tho story of the childhood of Moses, asked his boys : " Why was Moses hidden by his mother among the bulrushes ? " An urchin raised his hand to show that he knew the correct reply, and, on receiving permission to speak, the little fellow said, in the most innocent tone, '^Because his mother didn't want him vaccinated." The popular feeling against vaccination is very strong in Lusatia, and the child thought he was perfectly right. - Frem- denhlatt,  A Member of the Society of Friends writes : Or Saturday I received Notice A from headquarters. It is needless to say it will not be complied with. Our little one is now six months old, and I do not think it possible for any child to be more healthy. Whatever the consequences, she shall not be subjected to the risks of vaccination. I called the other day upon a medical man, whom I had not seen since my adoption of the anti-vaccination heresy, and in response to his hearty greeting, I remarked that I had almost feared he would not speak to me again. ** Oh," said he, " I have my own opinion about vaccination ; but then, you know, I am a paid official, and it does not do to say much." He is the public vaccinator for his distnct ! Another surgeon, whilst vaccinating my sister's child, informed her that he had no faith in the system, but was obliged to practise it.  The Hackney Guardians are slow to follow the example of their brethren in Camberwell and Paddington, but good sense is rising among them, and is likely to prevail. At a recent meeting, they discussed for a long time the question of prosecution and reprosecution of parents in default of the Vaccination Act, during which the Clerk read the celebrated letter from the Local Government Board in the Evesham case, giving Guardians discretionary power as to reprosecutions in recalcitrant cases ; and ultimately, after argument pro and con., the prosecution of Mr. William L. Beurle (a vice-president of the Anti-Vaccination League) was ordered by 11 to ; and that of Mr. Greorgo Collingwood and Mr. Geo. James FaiTOtt was confirmed (on a motion for rescission) by 12 to G. How much better it would have been to have left these gentlemen alone ! Their children will never be vaccinated ; the attempt to compel them will simply cause annoyance, subject the Board to defeat, and incite others to follow their example.   He who knows only his own side of the case, knows little of that.- J. Stuart Mill. Prejudice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain.- Aubbzt Db Ybbb.   i^te Uaxcmatimt Itupur^r   find ^e^attk BtEuieui.   Vol. IV., No. 48.]   MARCH, 1883.   [Pbicb Id.   NOTES OF THE MONTH   It would not be becoming to comment upon the prosecution of Mr. Bunlop, medical officer of the St. Pancras Workhouse, now in progress at the Clerkenwell Police Court, before Mr. Hosack. The proceedings have now occupied two sessions of the Court, and may be prolonged over one or two more, in order to complete the medical evi- dence. We would, however, remark that the prosecution has not been undertaken vindictively. The editor of the Standard says, '' It would have been magnanimous to have regarded the case as simply one of misadventure, and as raising no principle.'' The reverse is our contention ; the case is not simply one of misadventure, and it do€9 raise a principle. It is an instance of what is of constant occurrence, but which no individual sufferer can afford to bring to light; and which, apart from judicial investigation, would be outswom and denied. In the following sentence the Standard concedes our point : - ^* No one doubts' that the administration of pauper relief has an unfortunate tendency to become a mechanical routine, and that those who seek the shelter of the workhouse are apt to be dealt with much too expeditiously and economically." Private vaccination is usually accompanied with many precautions ; but public, and still more pauper vaccination, is administered as if infants •were of lees account than cattle.   The new President of the Local Government Board has not made a promising beginning. The following questions were addressed to him by Mr. Hopwood : -  1. ''Who was the medical authority for the assertion in the special instructions to Vaccination officers issued by the Department ' that  vaccination is perfectly well borne by children even immediately after birth *?  2. " Whether this instruction was opposed to the views and practice of the medical profession in regard to private patients of the wealthier classes?  3. " Whether any instruction had been given to Vaccination Officers that the consent of the parent was by law necessary?   4. " And whether he would amend the instructions issued in these respects? "  To these inquiries, Sir Charles Bilke briefly replied, on Feb. 20, that '' the instruction to vaccinate new-bom infants was applicable to special circumstances, such as an outbreak of smallpox, and that he saw no necessity for amending the circular." The reply was untrue. Of course, Sir Charles was not aware of its untruth. It was communicated to him, no doubt, from Dr. Buchanan's office, just as the fabulous reply concerning the soldiers invaccinated with syphilis was communicated to Mr. Dodson. The untruth of the reply will be manifest on reference to ''the Order to Vaccinate Infants in W^ork- houses, and to pay for the same," dated Jan. 27, 1881, and reprinted by us in our last number, p. 183. Not a word in that Order is to be found indicating any limitation to " special circumstances, such as an outbreak of smallpox" - not one word; nor was any such limitation ever intended. The current investigation at the Clerkenwell Police Court proves that in St. Pancras Workhouse' the vaccination of new-bom babes is matter of ordinary routine; and Dr. Ballard is present to justify it as attended with danger " not a bit." The vaccination of tender and feeble infants in the Holborn Work" house during the epidemic of 1881 created such scandal that it was stopped by the Quardians as soon as " the special circumstances " had passed away. Soon after they received a remonstrance from Whitehall as to the decline in their returns of vaccination, with a request to resume the abandoned practice, and allow no infant, however young, to leave the workhouse unvaccinated . Thus we discover afresh that truth is treated as of no account when it is con" sidered necessary " to preserve vaccination from reproach ; " and that it is considered fair practice to use a Minister to deceive Parliament and the public when it is supposed for their advantage to be so deceived.   PbbhAps the climax of absurdity in the claims made for vaccination is attained by Dr. Buchanan   in the siipplement to the Eleventh Annual Report of the Jjocal Qoyernment Board just issued. Titus Oatesy when questioned as to the fables he promulgated, pleaded the illimitable gullibility of the public ; and our official vaccinators might advance the same excuse, saying, ''The public like to be amazed, and we amaze them." If to argue with Dr. Buchanan is supposed to concede that there is anything substantial in his conju- rations, we beg to demur. We observe that the newspapers are citing his sensational statistics as " Nuts for Mr. P. A. Taylor to crack ; " but the nuts are bubbles which may be left to burst of themselves. For example, what need is* there to answer the assertion that if the mortality among the vaccinated Londoners equalled that among the unvaccinated, ' we should have to deplore "an additional 12,000' and more deaths from smallpox occurring during the year in the London population under ten years of age ** ; and that '' it is not to be disputed that ^this saving of 12,000 lives by vaccination is in great measure due to the operation of the Vaccination Acts of 1867 and 1871? '' Such stuff is not science, but phantasy, and reminds us he w closely Swift kept to a certain variety of human experience when he described the Laputian uni- versity of Lagado, in which grand academy Dr. Buchanan possesses every qualification for a professorship. Twelve thousand and rnore lives saved annually from smallpox in London by the operation of the Vaccination Acts ! Verily, Londoners might be grateful if they could forget that there was a time when their forefathers were all nn- vaccinated, when smallpox was * courted and cultivated, and when they lived in most deplorable sanitary conditions ; and yet never in any year did they suffer from a mortality like that which our Laputian statistician assumes as certain under far better sanitary conditions.   Suck bads as there is for Dr. Buchanan's •peculations consists in the fact that there is a strata of London life formed of the migratory and most miserable, whose young are not easily liud hold of for vaccination, and whose habits are precisely such as are most likely to engender and aggravate every form of zymotic disease. If smallpox is epidemic, such poor creatures natu- rally catch smallpox, and naturally die of it at a much higher rate than people in better circum- stances ; but they do not suffer more than others because unvaccinated, but because of their sad conditions of life. If we possessed their complete vital statistics, we should find their mortality under other maladies equally e^^cessive, and yet   who would argue that such excess was also due to the absence of vaccination ? But Dr. Buchanan, after the fashion of Lagado, observes : -  " No one suggests that the vaccinated and on-vaccinated classes live under conditions differing from each other in their influence on smallpox, unless it be this one condition of vaccination.^  On the contrary, we not only suggest, but niaintain, that vaccination is an irrelevant consideration, and that the higher mortality among the unvaccinated is completely explicable on the terms stated. Moreover, we contend that the number of the unvaccinated who die of  smallpox  is grossly exaggerated. Such is the Inas of the. medical profession, that severe and mortal cases are assumed to be unvaccinated. Over and over again inquicy has revealed the vaccinated dead registered as unvaccinated. The rule of the hospitals, too, swells their number ; for, as cynically avowed : -  ^ We do not mind what a patient says, nor what his friends say, of his vaccination. -We look at his arm, and if we see vaccination marks, he is entered as vaccinated ; but if we see no vaccination marks, he is entered as unvaccinated."  The consequence being that the worst cases of smallpox are placed to the credit of the unvacDr ated, the eruption rendering the marks indiscernible. Agiun, upwards of one-third of the smallpox deaths registered in London are undescribed as to the fact of vaccination. These, we hold, are vaccinated cases, which it is thought better to say nothing about, rather than record the truth to the discredit of vaccination. Dr. Buchanan, on the other hand, suggests that this reticence is due to the wish of medical practitioners to screen the dead from the reproach of not having fulfilled the Vaccination Acts 1 Was there ever a more ludicrous interpretation of human nature? It b for these reasons, which are surely sufficient, that we decline to take Dr. Buchanan seriously. He provides matter abundantly for converting vaccination to absurdity and ridicule; and of such unintentional service we shall avail ourselves when there is occasion. He has public prejudice to a large extent on his side, but there are many signs that it is giving way, and it cannot be long ere such grotesque impositions on credulity cease to be practicable.   Dr H. Stevens provides some interesting tables in the Report illustrative of the local incidence of smallpox in the London epidemic of 1881, when 2,379 perished, showing that the disease had its chief seats in those districts where overcrowding among the poor prevails* The facf   THE VACCIITATION INQUIRER.Is signifioant that no more than one*third~822 died at home in their own beds, whilst 1,557 passed away in hospitals. Another noteworthy fact is that 1,126| or nearly one-half, of the yictims were under 16 years of age ; only 620 heing oyer SO. Although, however, mortality is predominant in youth, it is not so great among the young as formerly. The smallpox age is rising, following in that respect other zymotic affections, and not, as Dr. Stevens fondly imagines, compelled to retreat from infancy under pressure of vaccination. The data of Dr. Stevens as to the vaccinated and unvaccinated are subject to the qualifications we have already set forth, coupled, too, with his own prepossessions. One who can say, as did Dr. Stevens at the Conference on Animal Vaccination, ''I have seen, perhaps, more vaccination than any man, and have never witnessed ithe least injury resulting from the practice," gives us his measure ; and his testimony where his prejudice comes into play is subject to the gravest reserves. Of course, the same observation may be turned against ourselves. It may be said that we are so set against  vaccination that we are blind to its efficacy, and place much to its discredit for which there is no warrant. We trust we are alive to the danger which attends all advocacy such as ours, and of which Dr. Stevens on the other side is a flagrant example.   Vabiglous phenomena, among a population so vast and various as that of London, are difficult to define, and subject to many interpretations; and it would therefore have been instructive to have had a report on Ampthill, a small town in Bedfordshire, where a severe epidemic of  smallpox  prevailed last year, exciting much consternation in the surrounding country. Yielding to the professional bias. Dr. Coombs, of Bedford, stated publicly that the outbreak was a consequence of the manner in which vaccination had been neglected in Ampthill; but refutation was instant. The authorities of Ampthill declined to rest under the stigma, and proved that the entire population had been faithfully vaccinated for the past half century, and that the public vaccinator had been rewarded for his complete and efficient work. Dr. Coombs had consequently to withdraw what he thought mtM^ be true, but which was the reverse of true. It was said there was to be an official inquiry into the Ampthill epidemic, but it has been discreetly passed over. Had such an epidemic occurred among the unvaccinated of Ee%hley, or Dew8bury,or Leicester, it would have been different The dieadf ul 4iMfr-   ter would have been proclaimed in every news- paper ; opponents of vaccination would have been denounced as homiddes; and investigation and exposure would have been demanded withoutre*^ serve. Inquiries that are not likely to make for the glory of vaccination do not commend them- selves to the authorities at Whitehall. There would be no scope for romance at Ampthill - ^no- thing like the annual salvation of 12,000 infant Londoners described by Dr. Buchanan.   The manifesto issued by Dr. Oidtmann is cha- racterised by the difference that generally divides Qerman from English, paternal from democratic legislation. If vaccination could be proved effe<>tive against smallpox, our German friends would not object to its compulsory enactment The English alternative was well expressed by Canning in 1808,. when he said: - ''I cannot imagine any circumstances whatever that would induce me to follow up the most favourable report of the infallibility of vaccination ,with any measure for its compulsory infliction." It is true the liberty thus proclaimed has been forsakeui but it is in aberration from the natural temper and traditions of England, and ere long the nation will in this matter return to itself. As to the issue invited by Dr. Oidtmann we have no fear. The Germans suffered themselves to be imposed upon by accepting as veracious thebog^ statistics of the English official vaccination ring ; and Dr. Oidtmann is fully justified in believing that whenever the sceptical intelligence of experts among his own countiymen is turned upon the evidence, ceasing to rely upon information at second-htuid, and exercising their own eyes and judgment, the entire vaccination fabric will dissolve like a mirage. Then, it is not improbable, the practice now enforced will be forbidden, and throughout Germany vaccination will become a penal offence. Whilst we should not approve of such legislation among ourselves, we hold that it is for each nation to fulfil the law of its spedal character. We, in England, prefer freedom, satisfied that, it is in what we do for ourselves that we are truly blest It is better, we think, that men should go astray for awhile, so that they should of themselves find the right way, than that they should be driven aright by the most consummate of herdsmen.   One of the most eminent of European men of science, writing to Mr. Tebb, obsef ves : -  ^' I have to thank you for sending me so much anti-vaccination literature. I read it all, and am extremely interested ; and I think I may now say that I aqi completely converted. It is certainly a   most marrellous case of loiup-continued delusion on a point which one would think capable of being easilj settled. I see now most of the sources of error in the provaccination statistics; but I cannot quite understand that there can be no protective influence in vaccination. I presume it really has some of the influence that an attack of smallpox has in preventing a second attack - but how much f 1 do not quite know if you allow this, or if you maintain that it has no influence whatever. Anti-vaccinists seem divided in opinion on this point. Still the evidence is sufiicient, and much more than sufficient, to condemn compuUory vaccination as a most horrible and unjustifiable tyranny."  It is a curious question, Whether vaccination has had any influence on smallpox? Preliminary to any valid answer we should require a definition of vaccination, which is not one, but several things. cowpox, horse-poz,  horsepox  cowpox, and smallpox cowpox, are each recog- nised sources of stock used for vaccination, and they cannot all influence smallpox indifferently. It is sometimes said that vaccination has at least shifted the incidence of smallpox from infancy to higher ages, smallpox last century being chiefly an affection of childhood ; but it has recently been pointed out by the Registrar- General that the phenomenon is not confined to smallpox, but that other forms of zymotic disease are prevailing over more advanced ages than heretofore. The fluctuations in the cha- racter and incidence of febrile affections are far from understood : whatever the law, it remains to be determined. smallpox was declining over Europe prior to the introduction of  vaccination, spite of its culture by inoculation ; and possibly it would have gone far to die out altogether had it not been kept alive by the varieties of pox used, under the designation of "  vaccination,'' for its extermination. Certainly, in view of our London experience, he would have a diffi- cult thesis to maintain who tried to prove that vaccination had preserved Londoners from  smallpox  ; and if by any means he contrived to make a show of a case, he would then have to prove that the gain was not far more than counterbalanced by the illness and death resulting from general vaccination.   It is not improbable, despite Sir Charles DilkeV expression of hopelessness, that an attempt will bd made by G-overnraent during the present session to limit the penalty for non-vaccination to a single flne. Mr. Whitbread, addressing his constituents at Bedford, on Feb. 6, thus described the case of those who, in common with himself, would fain relieve themselves from the difficulty   and disgrace that attend the present administra* tion of the law : -  ^I should like to say a word or two, not to the anti- vaccinators, but to those who are in favour of vaccination. I want you to bear this in mind - the law does not allow us to lay hold of a child and vaccinate it. All we can do is to fine the parent for not havmg his child vaccinated. It IS not unreasonable for strong believers in the efficacv of vaccination to desire the vaccination of all children ; but I put it to those who administer the law, whether it is worth while to go on fining a parent after he has expressed his determination to disobey the law. It may be argued that if the infliction of fines is persisted in, submission will be the result ; but the evidence does not answer to the conjecture. If a parent resists a fine - ^not a nominal fine, but a heavy one and is brought up again and again, will he submit? If he is an average Englishman, he will resist again and again, and never yield. (Applause.) Inasmuch, then, as we can never expect to vaccinate children by force, I ask whether it is worth while to strengthen the cause of anti-vaccination by imposing fines over and over again, and making martyrs of anti-vaccinators ? "  What Mr. Whitbread thinks reasonable is what the House of Commons would readily consent to without much persuasion, though Sir Charles Dilke thinks otherwise. It is not for us to deprecate any amelioration of the law ; but a solution of the difficulty on the terms indicated by Mr. Whitbread would merely defer the ultimate reckoning without affording any sensible advantage. We should resist the infliction of any penalty for non-vaccination, and incite others to resistance. We claim entire freedom to accept or reject vaccination like other medical prescriptions. There is no more reason why a rite like vaccination should be forced upon us (unless we pay for exemption) than the offices of the Established Church upon Nonconformists. Liberals who think otherwise have yet to master the elements of their own fiuth.   Mb. John MoitLBY,a8 was to be expected, was heckled at Newcastle-on-Tyne concerning vaccination. With all his wide information and experience, it was apparent that he knew little of the subject in itself, apart from prevalent mythical conceptions; but he had no hesitation in promising to vote for the repeal of repeated prosecutions. Mr. Morley is a man of open intelligence and courageous temper, and we have little doubt that since the question of vaccination has been brought so pointedly before him, he will feel compelled to examine it for himself ; and it is unlikely that he will come to any conclusioii save the right one. . In the meanwhile, we would put it to him, Why should a nonconformist be   .fined a single aizpence because, knowbg that Taccioe fever neither prevents nor mitigates smallpoxy he refuses to submit his children to the hazard of the disease? Why should the theological conscience be so jealously protected from offence, and the scientific conscience be exposed to such cruel outrage? It was Mr. Morlej, we think, who wrote, " Where the law comes into confiict with the consciences of men, it is the law that should be altered, and not conscience that should be forced/'   Mb. Newton is perhaps the most insolent and fanatical vaccinist on the Metropolitan bench. When Mr. Tebb was before him some seven years ago, he had the impudence to observe : " I am surprised that a well-dressed and intelligent man like you should refuse to vaccinate your child"! Mr. Charles Arm- field appeared before the same worthy on February 10, and produced a certificate from Dr. G^rth Wilkinson that his child was not in a state of health for vaccination ; which, according to sec. 84 of 30 and 81 Vict. cap. 84, is a bar to further proceedings. The vaccination officer, however, observing that Dr. Wilkinson was an an ti- vaccinator, Mr. Newton swept aside the certificate as of no account, telling Mr. Armfield that '^he would say anything,'' and proceeded to impose the fuU penalty of 208. and costs; and, in default of instant payment, he was lodged in the cells vnth three thieves until his father produced the money. The imprisonment, like the rejection of the medical certificate, was a high-handed defiance of law; for under the Summary Jurisdiction Act, where property exists to meet a fine, the course is to proceed by distraint. Mr. Newton will probably hear more of this business, and in a way that, we trust, may operate to his judicial improvement. London is not the place for such pranks, nor are our friends likely to suffer them.   the Southwark Anti-Vaccination Sodety pur- sues its objects with persistency and success, and by good sense wins even the respect of adversaries. The members are advised and assisted when under prosecution, and their fijies are paid in whole or in part. Qreat are the benefits of union : the feeble are strengthened, and the might of the strong magnified. Moreover, an active propaganda is midntained by lectures, correspond- ence in the newspapers, and the distribution of literature. On Feb. 20 the Society attempted the bold venture of holding a public meeting in the New Town Hall, Bermondsey, one of those   spacious and handsome structures with which the ratepayers of many metropolitan quarters have of late years provided themselves. Notwith- standing unpropitious weather, there was a creditable gathering in the vast hall; and under the presidency of Mr. G. S. Knight, the Treasurer of the Society, a series of ap- propriate resolutions were moved and seconded by Dr. Dixon, Mr. G. Vemey, Dr. Nichols, Mr. Young, Mr. White, and Mr. Milnes. Opposition was invited, but oppodtion there was none ; the speakers were listened to throughout with attention and applause, and their motions were carried with practical unanimity. When civil war was raging in America,.the friends of the North in this country held many public meetings to sympa- thise with their cause, and used to challenge the friends of the South to do so likewise, and thus test public opinion. In the same way we might challenge the advocates of compulBoxy vaccination to hold- a public meeting anywhere, and, granting us a free platform, we should defy them to carry a resolution in its favour. By the mass of the people, compulsory vaccination is abhorred, as politicians'vrill presentiy discover, some of them to their extreme surprise.   Dr. Brownings, Medical Officer of Health for Rotherhithe, supported by Dr. Renner, was kind enough to . appear at the monthly conference of the London Society in' defence of Animal Vaccination. We have nothing but commendation for those who, confiding in vaccination in any of its forms, are ready to enter into discussion with those who impugn its validity in all its forms. When we state that Dr. Browning was answered by Dr. Collins and Mr. Tebb, it is scarcely neces- sary to say more, unless to mention a singularly impressive speech by our Vice-President, Mr. Alfred Milnes. We have so often expressed our opinion of animal vaccination, and of the miracn- lous virus that is not virulent, that our objections to Dr. Browning's discourse may. be taken as recorded. Following Dr, Wyld, Dr. Warlomont, and Dr. Martin, he had much to say of thousands inoculated with non-virulent virus among whom no case of subsequent smallpox had ever been reported; but he failed to specify what means had been adopted to discover what it is reasonable to suppose might be preferably unknown. Enthusiasts rarely proclaim their fulures; and even if discovered, would not such untoward smallpox be accounted for as due to some defect in the collection or application of the. infallible specific ? Per contra, we can vouch for thousands of unvaccinated who have never contracted small.   pox, even amid epidemics; and might we not as cogently argue that they were sayed because undefiled? Much might be .said for that yiew of the case, absurd though it may appear.   PKOSECUTION OF MR. DUNLOP,  Medical Offickb of St. Pancbas wobehouse.  At the Olerkenwell Police Court, before Mr. Hosack, on February 14, Mr. Walter M'Indoe Bunlop, medical officer of the St. Pancras Work- house, appeared to a summons which charged him with feloniously killing and slaying Lilian Ada Williams. Mr. Corrie Grant, barrister, ap- peared for the prosecution, instructed on behalf of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination, and Mr. Besley, barrister, for the defence. There was a large attendance of medical men and officials of the Medical Department of the Local Government Board. In opening his case, Mr. Corrie Grant stated that he appeared against the defendant to support a cnarge of manslaughter on behalf of Charlotte Williams, the mother of Lilian Ada Williams. The child was born in St. Pancras Workhouse on December 10, the mother having entered for the purpose of being confined the previous day. On Dec. 16,. the nurse in charge took the child to the defendant in his surgery, where it was vaccinated, and it was then taken back to the mother. On the 23rd, the mother dischar^d herself from the workhouse and went home with the child. On the 28th, the child became seriously ill, and on the 29th it was taken to the doctor. It died on Jan. 7. As the medical gentleman who attended it would not give a certificate as to the cause of death, an inquest was held, and the verdict of the jury, as he, Mr. Grant, had been informed, was " That the child died from the mortal effects of suppurating meningitis, supervening on ulceration of the vaccine vesicles of the arm.'' That, he thought, was tantamount to a verdict of manslaughter against Mr. Dunlop for having improperly vaccinated the child. The solici- tors for the prosecution had applied to the coroner for a copy . of the depositions, but he, in the exercise of his discretion, had refused it. The prosecution did not, therefore, know what was the medical evidence given. It was, however, contended that that would not be the point of the case, ' inasmuch as the defendant had no authority to vaccinate the child without the consent of the mother. He was appointed by the Poor Law authorities, of course, but their rules gave him no authority to act as he had done. In a cir- cular issued by the Poor Law Commissioners, it was laid down that when there was a danger of smali-poz the Guardians could instruct the medical officer to vaccinate the child without the consent of the parents. But here there was no danger, and no instruction had been g^ven by the Guardians, and the Yacdnation Act gave the defendant,, as parish medical officer, no authority to vaccinate a cMld in the workhouse without applying for the parents' consent. He would prove that the mother's consent was not asked   in this instance. If he proved that fact, he should submit that the defendant had acted illegally, and in doing what he did had committad an assault upon the child.  Mr. Bealey said that the summons charged a specific ofiEence, and a second charge could not be imported.  Mr. Grant sikid he would not prefer the charge of assault. The charge of manslaughter was sufficient for his purpose. A learned Judge had Taid it down that if death supervenpd on an act of negligence, that was sufficient to support a charge of manslaughter. Another point in the case was the defendant's neglect of the instructions of the Local Government Board with respect to  vaccination, and he believed that he would show hprimd facie case agunst the defendant, who, he would ask, should be committed for trial.  Annie Reynolds said she was deputy midwife at St. Pancras Workhouse, and had charge of the lying-in ward. She remembered Charlotte Williams being admitted on December 9. On Sunday the 10th, she was confined of a female child at 2 a.m. In the workhouse there was a regular day for vaccinating - Saturday. On the 16th, the Saturday following the birth, there were five children to be vaccinated, Williams's child bebg one of them. On that morning witness mentioned the matter to Willianis, tellingher that the doctor was coming to vaccinate. The child was undressed by the nurse for the purpose. Witness was not quite sure if she herself took the child in question to the doctor, but believed she did. She was certainly present, and the child was vaccinated by Mr. Dunlon. The doctor had examined the child twice oefore that day, witness having called his attention to the child from its appearance at birth. On the Saturday he examined the child just as he did other children. The witness was pressed as to what was the kind of examination the child was subjected to, but she confined herself to replying that he only looked at the child. She did not think he pushed its clothes lower down. He made no remark, but, having vaccinated the child, handed it back to her to take to its mother. She was quite sure that she had not made any different statement to the solidtor for the prosecution. Every child was examined by the doctor, and sometimes they were not vaccinated . The doctor always knew if anything was the matter with the children, and if there was witness alwavs told him. All particulars were entered in a book - the health of the n^other, the baby, its weight, &c.  Cross-examined by Mr. Besley. - Witness had had eleven years' experience as a midwife, and had been four years and a-half at the workhouse. Dr. Dunlop was there when she entered, and had remained all the time. Probably 300 children were vaccinated in the course of a year in the workhouse. There was no difference in the treatment of this child from the others vaccinated there. The register produced contdned the particulars. It showed the mother's health to be good, and the weight of the child eight hours afterbirth as 71b. The mother was discharged at her own request on the 2Srd. Witness noticed that at the birtJ^ the child had a blackening over both eyes. The mother alleged that it was the consequence of violence to herself. The blacken  ?rHE VACCINATION INQtllREtt.ing had disappeared before yacdDation. Witness "was aware that the child was vaccioated with matter taken from a child named Alice Hunt.  Mr. Besley read the register, showing that the other four diildren vaccinated at the same time were respectively nine, nine, five, and five days old.  Mr. Grant said that the certificates returned by the defendant did not agree with the entries, as the ages of the children were given as twelve and twenty-one days.  The witness said that all the children were vaccinated from the same child, Alice Hunt, and all the other children had done well. Charlotte Williams, the mother of the child, was vaccinated the same day as her child, and that must have been done from the same child, Alice Hunt.  Charlotte Williams, the mother, was then called. She said she was not seventeen years of age and was single. At the time the child was taken by Mrs. Reynolds, on the Saturday after the birth, witness did not know that it was taken to be vaccinated. A woman in another bed told her after the child was gone. Witness left the workhouse on the 2drd by her own desire. The baby always appeared asleep, and never cried. On the 28th the baby was ill, and on the 29th witness, on the advice of a friend, took it to Dr. Chalmers, who advised that the arm should be bathed with warm water and cold cream applied. The child got worse, and was taken to the doctor five times within seven days, and then it died. Before death poultices were applied and brandy and milk given. For three days before death it was unable to take natural milk, and its arm was always running with matter.  The witness was cross-examined as to her proceedings before entering the workhouse, and she said she had come from Birmingham with the father of the child, whose age was 20. She admitted that on entering the workhouse she said she was 18 years of age. It was after the inquest on the child had been reported that & gentleman, whom she now knew as Mr. Spencer, of the Anti-Vaccination Society, spoke to her, and afterwards called at the lodgings she had with the child's father. The gentleman did tell her that he believed the child was killed by vaccination, and that it was a shame babies should be vaccinated at that age.. She signed a paper put before her by him.  Mr. Besley wished the paper produced. '  Mr. Grant protested that Mr. Besley's cross- examination was an attempt to blacken the Society, which in this instance was helping the very |:oor. The paper was only the solicitor's retainer.  The witnefis having added that, in her opinion, the child died from the vaccination, said, in reply to the magistrate, that the child seemed to go on well for five days after it left the workhouse.  It being necessary to adjourn the further hearing,  Mr. Besley siud he would take the magis- trate's opinion as to whether there was any evidence at all to support the charge.  Mr. Hosack said he was told there was medical evidence which might be vital. He adjourned the further hearing.   Second Day.- Fbb. 21.  Maby Ann Sfbncbb, a single woman, living at 90, Seymour Street, Eustoh-road, in examination by Mr. Grant, deposed that she was confined in St. Pancras Workhouse on Dec. 8, and the child was vaccinated on the following Saturday, Dec. 9. On the 16th witness, acting under directions, took her baby into the kitchen where the doctor was.  Mr. Grant. did you see Williams's baby there? - Yes ; it was brought into the kitcheii| and I saw Mr. Dunlop vaccinate it.  Where was vour baby at this time P- Miss Harding, the under nurse, was holding it.  Did you see from what child Williams's baby was vaccinated? - ^Yes, from mine. Of that I am quite sure. I did not see Mr. Dunlop examine Williams's baby before he vaccinated it. The arm of my baby was at that time very much inflamed and white all round the place where it had been vaccinated. The swelling was down to the elbow. About seven babies were vaccinated from the arm of my child, and one or two from the arm of the child of a woman named Alice. Mr. Dunlop took some matter from the arm of my child in tubes. I left the workhouse on the following Mondav, and the child afterwards suffered from a cough, t took it to the University Hospital, and got some medicine and cod-liver oil. l found it dead by my side a month ago, and an inquest .was held upon it. I rememMr Williams's baby particu- larly, because it was black under the eyes when it was bom. ^ ^ .  Cross-examined by Mr. Besley. - My child died from inflammation cf the left lung and convuU sions. I went to the hoepitid with the child eight days before it died; which was the first time I had shown it to any medical man. I was asked to come here as a witness by Mr. Spencer, who is in Court. I did not see any grown-up neople vaccinated in the workhouse at all, and as not know that twenty-three adults were vaccinated from my child's arm. There might have been only five babies vaccinated from mine. Among them was the cldld of a woman named Enight, and another named fisher. The latter is now in Court.  Mrs. £llen Harlev, of 371, Gray's Inn-road, in examination, statea that she knew Charlotte Williams, and first saw her baby on Dec. 23, when she fetched her from the workhouse. From that time until it died witness saw it every day. The child seemed to get very poorly about four or five days afterwaras, and its left arm, which had been vaccinated, was very much swollen and red. Witness accompanied the mother, with the baby, to Dr. Chalmers, on Dec. 29, and saw that his instructions- were fulfilled. After that time the child got worse, and refused its food. It was tried with various things, such as corn flour. This baby was a very small one indeed. It was well attended to until its death, which took place on Jan. 7.  Witness, cross-examined, stud that her son, who lived at Birmingham, and was not quite 20 years of age, was the father of the child. She first saw Charlotte Williams last Joly when on a visit to Birmingham. Complainant came to London three days before she was taken to the.   workhouse, and it was at the advice of witness that a room was taken for her son and the complainant in Caledonian-road; She had nothing to do with indacinff the motlier to leave the workhouse so early, but acquiesced in it because complainant was afraid the authorities would send her back to Birmingham. The  vaccination  sores on the child's arm never " scabbed over *' to the knowledge of witness, but were always " running wounds " and never healed.  By the Magistrate. - The child was a very small one, but had no signs of disease on it. She should not call it a healthy child. The room in which complainant lived with the child was kept warm.  Thomas A. Tandy, a jeweller by trade, the father of the child, said that on the morning the complainant left the workhouse he went to Uale- donian-roffd-and made a fire up in the room he and Williams were to occupy, which he kept up all day, until they went there from his mother's (the witness, Mrs. Harley). Witnedswent up and helped to nurse the child the night before it died, when it seemed in great agony. It had two vaccination marks on its left arm, which had run into one another, while the rest of the arm was much swollen. The child had refused to take food. Besides giving the child corn flour and arrowroot, they had also tried it with some brandy and milk and water for several days, but it could only swallow a very little.  Cross-examined. - ^Witness said that his earnings in the fortnight prior to the death of the child were about 15s.  Dr. Chalmers, of 48, Caledonian-road, M.D., and M.B. of Glasgow University, said that the deceased child Williams was brought to his house about ten o'clock on the night of Friday, Dec. 29, by its mother, Charlotte Wuliams, and the witness, Mrs. Harley. The child was very small and emaciated, and in a comatose condition, from which it did not seem to be easily roused.  Did you examine the child? - I looked at its arm, and saw two unhealthy-looking sores, each about the size of a shilling, on the upper part. They were oozing matter, and round each sore were the remains of the raised vesicle of the  vaccination . The arm was swollen from the elbow down to the hand, and was of a motley redness. The child had been recently vaccinated. I instructed the mother what to do. There were some greased rags on the arm, which I ordered to be removed, and a treatment of bread poultices substituted. I looked at its limbs and found no other sores or signs of disease, but the child was generally a weakly and unhealthy one. I afterwards saw it about every second day.  How did it go on ? - ^The surface of the arm  got into a healtmer condition and a better colour ; ut the child itself became gradually more coma- tose, and its general condition gradually worse until its death. I did not notice the condition of the axillary glands. There was no rigor that I saw, but the mother told me that it had a tremor before death. I saw the child weighed at the post-mortem examination, in which I assisted. It turned the scale at 3 lb. 13 oz. A healthy child a month old would weigh 8 lb. The post-mortem was made by myself and Dr. Pepper. I found the child healthy as far as its internal organs were   concerned. There was no marked swelling of any of the glands. The coverings of the brain were in an unhealthy condition, and were suf- fused with yellow matter all round the base of the brain, some parts of which were congested. Those symptoms were sufficient to account for the comatose condition, its wasted state, and general condition. It was what is called sup- purative meningitis, and was caused by the ao- sorption of purulent matter from the ulceration on the arm.  Can you tell how many pla^sea the child was vaccinated in ? distinctly two. Public, vaccinators usually vaccinate in four or five places. I have had considerable practice in  vaccination , and operate on about 200 children a year.  Is it, in your opinion, a delicate operation ? - Yes.  was this child fitted to be vaccinatedP - I could not tell from my own observation what the child's state was at birth. My usual practice is to vaccinate at about three months of age ; but I sometimes do it as early as two months if the mother requests it. The weight of a healthy child at birth is about 7i lb., but it miffht be reduced in a month, by disease, to 4 lb. I have never vaccinated a child of six days old, and should not do so without making inquiries into the child's health, how other children of the same family had borne  vaccination , and the health, of the parents. If it was left to my judgment, I should not vaccinate one so young; but if the parents were desirous that it should be done, and would take the responsibility upon them- selves, I would vaccinate at any age.  Cross-examined by Mr. Beslejr.-^Mr. Dunlop id unknown to me. I have not either advised or encouraged this prosecution. When the child was brought to me I did not know that its parents were living in a small room in Caledonian-road, and I never went there until after its death. I could see that the mother was poor, but I did not know who the elderly lady was who aecompanied her on her first visit to me. It is possible that a child x)f 3^ lb. weight at birth might live, and it is a common thing for newly-born infants only to weigh 6 lb. From what I am told by the mother, added to my own examination, I should think that the child was not a fully matured one. The weighing of the body was four days after death, but I do not think in that time that there would be any appreciable diminution in weight from that in life.  The case was afterwards adjourned until Feb. 28. . .  In reply to the mc^strate, l^r. Grant remarked that he had two or three witnesses to call.  Mr. Besley remarked that he would not anti- cipate the decision of the magistrate; but, if necessary, he would be prepared to call medical testimony.  [From the Standard, Feb. 24.]  It was natural for the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination to turn to account the case under inyestigation at the Clerkenwell Police-court concerning the death of an infant that had been vaccinated a few days after its birth in the St. Pancras Workhouse. It would have been magnanimous of the Anti-   THE VACCINATION INQITIRER.Vaccinators to have regarded the ease as umply one of misadventurei and as raising no principle. No one doubts that the administration of pauper relief has an unfortunate tendency to become a mechanical routine, and that those who seek the shelter of the workhouse are apt to be dealt with much too expeditiously and economically. The directions of the Local Government Board as regards Taccinating infants born in work- houses apnear to have been framed on the principle of " vaccinate while you can." Whenever the mother is convalescent, she will probably leave her temporary asylum, taking her offspring with her. In that interval the^Ledical Officer takes occasion to vaccinate the child, anticipating the usual date of vaccination by reason of a suspicion, not altogether groundless, that the mothers of such infants, when they again breathe the air of freedom in their native slums, will develop no small amount of indifference, not to say contempt, for the Vaccination Acts, and for the sanitary intentions of the State generally. In the case under discussion, the infimt, Ada Lilian, was a puny child, and the unbending rule of the workhouse bore hardly upon her. It came out clearly in the evidence that the vaccine vesicles on the arm had run an unhealthy course, that the whole arm had become infected with inflammatory products, and that this infective inflammation had extended discontinuously to the brain, an organ which, in young children, is peculiarl]^ liable to such secondary implications. It is unquestionabl& also that the operation would have oeen better borne two or tnree months later - supposing the child to have thriven, which is supposing a good deal. But assuredly there is nothing in all these circumstances to raise the general question of Vaccination or No Vaccination. Misadventures will occur in the working of the most perfect sanitary machinery that the Legislature can devise, and occasional risks must be borne both by patients and practitioners. Fatalities were much more common in the last century from inoculation with the  smallpox , than in the present century from inoculstion with the cowpox. It was owing, among other reasons, to the occasional deaths that followed it (one in five hundred at the utmost) that inoculation with the smallpox was given up, and, in fact, made a criminal offence, while vaccination became the law. Inoculation with the smallpox was probably a better protection to the individual who survived it, just as a natural attack of  smallpox  is the best possible protection against a second one. But inoculation carried more risk with it, and it spread the disease in remote places, where smallpox might never have reached by other channels.  Vaccination gives a certain measure of protection, while the risk is reduced to a minimum, because the vesicles form only at the seats of puncture, and the constitutional fever is slight. But, while almost free from risk, it is unfortunately not an absolute protection ; though if people will take the trouble to test the resistance of. their constitutions to the smallpox poison by means of frequent re-vaccinations - say, every five or ten years - ^they may make the protection perfectly sure. lA common assertiorij hut the reverse \   of true. To he re'Vacciriated increases the risk of smallpoxf as many find to their surprise.'] It is well known that the smallpox patients in the hospitals of the Metropolitan Asylums Board are three-fourths of them persons who had been successfully vaccinated in infancy; and among such vaccinated persons there occur some of the worst cases of smallpox, in which the eruption is confluent. But the mortality among those who have been vaccinated is only 6 per cent, while among those who had never oeen vaccinated it is about 40 per cent. [These percentiles are imagi* nary, it is almost needless to observe.] The whole question is one of degree. The active-minded persons who constitute the Anti- Vaccination So- ciety would be doinff good service if they would co-operate with the Medical Profession in finding out what is the scientific principle of Vaccination, instead of trying to persuade the world that their trumped-up principle of " No Vaccination " is a principle worthy of the name. The scientific weakness of the Vaccination practice is that it is entirely an affair of rule of thumb; neither Jenner nor any one after him ha? put it on a firm basis of reasoned science. The pastoral tribes of Beloochistan and the natives of the Peruvian Andes are known to have stumbled upon the idea of protective Vaccination in their cow-milking experience, just as the dairymen in Gloucestershire dio, and they put it into practice in a rude fashion, setting their children^ when they had cracks or abrasions on the fingers, to milk the cows that had an eruption on the udder. The practical genius of Edward Jenner persuaded the world to practise inoculation with the cowpox systematically and on the grand scale. The first statistical results were sincrularly favourable - more favourable, indeed, than they have ever been since. But statistics are not the ultimate basis upon which the sanitary measures of the State should rest ; while it is notorious that those who are contentiously minded may quote statistics for their own purposes. There is a profound truth in the remark of the greatest of living patho- logists. Professor Virchow, of Berlin, that ** if we had a real theory of how a disease comes to be communicated once for all, the cry of the Anti-Vaccinators would cease." [As sanitarians, we know how such diseases as smallpox need not he had at all; which is surely a much more profitable knotoledae than a " theory of having them once for tdl"] How a disease is communicated once for all, may seem to the ardent Anti- Vaccinator to be a question quite beyond his range as a publicist. But the members of the London Anti- Vaccination Society will fail to make the meet of their undoubted zeal and intelligence if they do not charge themselves with a large and liberal study of the pathology of contagious eruptions. There is safety for the people in the scientific spirit. There is also in it a power to reconcile antagonisms.  De. Dbtsdale is always lamenting over the increase of babies, but he surely forgets that in vaccination he has a powerful ally in reducing their number; and he will farther reduce them if he brings into vogue similar prophylactics for the other diseases of childhood. - A Nbw Zealand Agbicultubist in Echo, Feb. 8.THE V vaccination  INQUIREtL   INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY OF ANTI- VACCINATORS.  TuK following is the substance of t}ie Manifesto about to be presented to the Beichstag and oircnlated throughout Germany : -  The Society is opposed to all legislation whereby Tact'ination is enforced ; and is devoted to the refutation of the yarious statements and arguments wberewitb its practice is justified. From those who may approve of vaccination, but dislike its compulsory infliction, to those who would prohibit it| as the German Government prohibited the variolous inoculation of sheep, we invite co* operation. Our desire is to bring vaccination under discussion, and to make an end of that terrorism that presents the alternatives of vaccination or smallpox. To neither belief nor unbelief do we appeal, nor to the emotions, but to judgment, cool, unprejudiced, critical. It has been the custom to assert that vaccination is above discussion ; but so many breaches have been made in the three-fold ring" of history, statistics, and experiment with which it was sup- posed to be girt about, that the assertion is .on longer tenable.  Educated in the vaccine faith, it has not been without many struggles that we have been led to surrender the traditional position. We. have now to complain that to our contention is opposed silence. Vaccination has cdased to be defended because it is distrusted. It is known that its defences are unsound - that tha English and Swedish statistics which were taken for true will no longer bear the construction put upon them. But a cause that is not defensible is destined to be lost. This clearly appears fr.om the recent plebiscitum in Switzerland, where 320,000 votes, were recorded against compulsory vaccination, and no more than 68,000 in its favour : -  " Certainly the vote was not taken on scientific grounds by the commanity. Public opinion merely wished to advertise the medical profession that their invasion of the domestic circle, and their attacks on parental right will not be submitted to, and that the doubtful blessing of vacchiation must not be insisted upon in defiance of personal convictions."  It is attempted in Germany as in England to discredit the opponents of vaccination as enemies of law and order ; and when this imputation is repelled with indignation, then it is said, ^' Observe the intemperance of these men I " Such tactics may serve to . obscure the true issue for a time, but only for a time. We bhall firmly insist on a reference to facts, nor be satisfied with anything short of their exhaustive consideration.  The special points proposed for revision are the bases of the Vaccination Law of 1874. First : -  "The prime assumption from which this law started was, that the sudden fall in the mortality from smallpox in various lands at the beginning of the century was a consequence of the general introduction of vaccination. -In spite of repeated protests, this assumption was treated as indubitable in 1874, and yet at the present moment there is scarcely a medical man in Germany who will answer for its accuracy. At the meeting of the German Medical Association at Eisenach in 1879, Herr Med. Hath Dr. Flinzer acknowledged that   the falling-curve in smallpox mortality oommenoed long before vaccination was sufficiently extensive to influence it. With this acknowledgment of error, which not even Professor Yirchow ventured to contradict, the comer-stone of the vaccination law, the proof of the wisdom of compulsion, was overturned, and the law deprived of its chief justification."  2. An opinion of Dr. Guttstadt, of the Royal Statistical Bureau of Berlin, was taken for granted, to the effect that the spread of the  smallpox  epidemics of 1870-73 was due to the increase of un vaccinated persons : -  ** At the present day, no medical man believes that such a diffusion of smallpox can be verified. The increase of smallpox cannot be traced to the unvaccinated, nor can it be shown that the unvaccinated are in any wise more liable to attack than the vaccinated."  The theory of vaccination presupposing the immunity of the vaccinated whilst the unvaodnated were liable to attack and centres of infection, the facts were invented to correspond with the theoxy and implicitly accepted as true.  8. The appeal to what was called ** the vaii" olous test'' by Jenner and the early Tacdnators, whereby it was taken as proved that after vaccination attended with a due exhibition of erysipelas it was not possible to inoculate with smallpox. Whilst the variolous test is nullified by the practice of re^vaccination, it is to be borne in mind that the inoculation of smalljwx or cowpox is a very different thing from the inception of  smallpox  in the ordinary way from natural causes : -  "Our German municipal records show thou- sands of cases of attack or death from smallpox, even in newly-vaccinated persons. The modem analogical proofs drawn from the experiments of M. Pasteur with anthrax or splenic fever have. been proved by the counter, experiments of Dr. Koch to be miserable illusions. Artificial inoculation is one thing, the epidemic development of disease quite another ; and to base the right of tha State to enforce vaccination on the variolous test d. la Jenner is to occupy a position that cannot possibly be maintained."  4. In the Reichstag an appeal was made '* to the overwhelming opinion of medical men and scientific authorities ^ : -  " Were this unanimity real, what should be said of it in presence of the official records of thou- sands of cases of fatal smallpox in the newly- vaccinated? Unanimity subject to such refutation, what is it worth ? But it is untrue that 'the authorities' are unanimous, unless formal confessions of certain medical societies be taken for unanimity, or the silence that is merely dumbness because the truth that is unpopular cannot for a while be confessed."  5. Then there was . the declaration by the Medical Minister to the Keichstag, to the effect that no well-attested mischief had arisen from vaccination: -  " This assertion has now been disproved, espe- cially by Dr. Bietz, of St. Petersburg; by Dr. Bohn and Dr. Freund in the Medical i^sembly at Eisenach; and by .judicially established deaths from raccination in England. The danger to health and life, even with animal virus, combined   THE VAOOIKATION INQTTIRER.   19J$   %vith the risk of excesaiye erysipelas, are now no longer denied by the medical profession."  The promise was at the same time made that harmless  vaccination  was perfectly practicable, and that yirus, protective and inDocuous, might always be had in sufficient quantity : -  '* How this proposition is shaken is plain from the recent exertions to supplant the arm-to-arm system (so openly approved in the Reichstag in 1874) by what is called calf -lymph, which does not prevent erysipelas ; which form of virus, too, has proved highly dangerous in the inoculation of sheep, a nd, for the purpose intended, is held of no account by veterinarians."  Such are the chief reasons which induced the Eeichstag in 1874 to enact compulsory vaccioation. They are now seen to possess no validity. Yet is the law upheld to the great injury of the public health and sacrifice of life I  it is the duty of every repreMutativa to examiue the statements and arguments by which vaccination is supported previous to giving his vote for or against compulsion. We do not ask for the re[>eal of compulsion, if, after inquiry, vaccination i^ proved to oe effective against smaU-  Soz. Some may think it expedient, whilst satis- ed of the value of vaoeination, to discontinue compulsion; but We Germans should refuse to accept such a compromise in the interests of science. If compulsion is repealed in Germany, it must be after exhaustive inquiry into the claims made for vaccination. Such was the method pursued when Professor Yirchow obtained the prohibition of sheep inoculation in the Prussian Diet ; and thus it was that Dr. Flinzer at Eisenach in 1879 cleared away from  vaccination the sham English defences of the practice which had become embedded in medical prejudice and official apologies.  For such inquiry, unsparing and thorough, we have petitioned for ten years : our prayer can no lonfirer be denied.  The vaccination question in the Gernum Reichstag cannot be permitted to become a P&rty one - a question either of the Centre or the oocial Democrats. Those who ai'e opposed to compul- sion must apply their opposition to the weak arguments and fallacious statements on which the law is enacted. If they cannot do this, they may as well do nothing. Placed thus on scientific grounds it will be impossible to ascribe opposition to political motives, or to answer our contention in any way save by the concession of inquiry.  The inquiry sought for cannot be conducted in a miscellaneous assembly like the Eeichstag : -  " The Beiohstag must petition the Chancellor to institute an extra-Parliamentary Commission of Yacoinators and Anti-Yaocinators, consisting of medical men, statisticians, and legal experts, to examine and test the foundations on which the law was established, with, the object of ascertaining whether those foundations were erroneous. The . report of this Commission should .be printed, and then submitted to the Eeichstag for information and discussion. To such procedure no honest friend of vaccination can object.  '* If German medical men wish to save them- selves from such disasters as have overtaken their colleagues in France, England, and Switzerland,   where vaccination laW is discussed without reference to medical opinion, they will have to abandon their attitude of superb disdain, and answer their antagonists with something more effective than traditional declamation."  The organ of the International Society of Anti- Vaccinators, published monthly at Leipzig, is the Impfgefftier {Anti- Vaccinator) : -  '* It is established for the scientific discussion of the  vaccination  Question ; proceeding, as did Yir- chow, when he put an end to the inoculation of sheep ; and as did Flinzer, when he demonstrated, with general assent, the fallacies of the English in Simon's statistical tables ; for the separation of the immaterial from- the material, of fact from fiction ; and, in short, the reduction of what passes for the doctrine of vaccination to its indestructible elements. "We commence with : - <  "1. The opinion of the Boyal Deputation of Feb. 26, 1872, on the value of vaccination, examining it thoroughly.  "2. We shall collect the smallpox registers in the German municipfklities for epidemic years, and closely examine the evidence, so as to ascertain indisputably how far they establish or confute the claims made for vaccination. The importance, of this research is well indicated in the observation of Dr. Koch in his refutation of Pasteur : - ^ the death of the non-inoculated animals from splenic fever proves little or nothing in favour of the preventive-inoculation; whilst the infection of the inoculated animals with the fever supplies an in - contestible argument against Pasteur's theory.'  " 8. We shall substantiate charges of injury by vaccination.  . ** 4. We shall forward the results of our inquiries to the members of the Legislature, to the National Board of health* and to the medical societies and journals of Germany and other 'countries. We shall' then record in thi9 newspapers our protest against compulsory vaccination and our exposure of the fallacies on which the law was enacted."  We hope to obtain numerous adhesions through- out Germany and Europe to this our programme, which ought to be addressed to  D&. H. OiDTMANN, Central Office,  linnich, AacheUi   The Eastbourne House of Commons, on Feb. 22, resumed an adjourned debate on the  vaccination  Question, and passed a Bill to repeal compulsory vaccination. Ayes, 58 ; noes, 48.  J. M. Peebles, M.D., of Hsimmonton, New Jersey, writing to Mr . Tebb on Jan. 18, observes: - "In my opinion, vaccination is without a redeeming quality. It is evil, and that continually. During the prevalence of smallpox thirty years ago, I was vaccinated; at that time knowiufi^ no better. I was a severe sufferer. Months and years of constitutional treatment were required to* remove thd virus from my system. Let me add, that I not only consider vaccination a signal failure in the prevention of smallpox, but a barbarous rite, always physically, and frequently fatally, injurious. Compulsory vaccination, whether in America or Europe, is an insult to liberty, and utterly opposed to the genius of the nineteenth century. You may ever reckon upon the aid of my tongue and pen in the good work of which you and others are such I faithful representatives."   1THE VACClNAl'ION INQtTlRfife.   PROSECUTIONS IN LEICESTER.  The Leicester Magistrates have taken ^'a new departure/' which is of extreme importance, and, no doubt, well considered beforehand. The law allows that " reasonable objection ^ to Taccination be entertained, but hitherto fanaticism on the bench has ruled that no objection to '' the benign rite " can be reasonable. A different spirit has descended upon the Leicester justices. They are willing to hear and consider reasonable oDJeotions, and if onlj their example is followed, the weight of authentic evidence against vaccination will soon prove overwhelming.  At the Town Hall, on Feb. 16, before Mr. Stafford and Mr. Crow, a number of parents were summoned for neglecting to have tneir children vaccinated. Francis Harrison, Charles Webster Carter, Joseph Williams, Stephen Grisetti, and James Stevens were fined 10s. each. In the cour("e of Grisetti's case, Mr. Amos Booth crosfr- examined Mr. Maskell, the vaccination officer, as to the proce. dings which would be further taken in these cases.  Mr. Booth. - If the defendants refuse to pay these fines, will not the matter rest in abeyance ?  Mr. Maskell. - I cannot answer that question.  Mr. Booth. - Have you instructions from the Guardians to press for distress warrants in these cases?  Mr. Maskell.^ - I cannot say. My instmotions as to inaction only refer to seventeen oases already disposed of.  Arthur Johnson, who was summoned, pleaded that very ill effects had resulted from vaccina? tion in his family, and his case was dismissed. Thomas Ghreen, also summoned^ alleged that he had two brothers, each of whom had lost a child throufrh vaccination. He had not been vaccinated himself, and had suffered nothing in consequence, and if his child ought to be vaccinated he ought too. John Lewin made a similar defence. The magistrates thereon consulted with the Clerk, and decided to adjourn the cases for a fortnight, in order that inquiries be made into the truth of defendants' statements. Charles Welch sfud he refused to comply with the law because another child of his had been ill ever since it was vaccinated. The case was"djourned in order that a certificate might be produced as to the cause of the other chil<Ps illness. Richard Taylor and J. W. Wilson were each fined IQs. In conclusion, Mr. Amos Booth thanked the Bench for the course they had taken with regard to the disputed cases, and said that an ti- vaccinators in all parts of the country would be grate- ful to them for showing a disposition to follow the advice of the late President of the Local Government Board.  In the Leicester Daily Post the following letter appeared : -  "This morning, at the Police-court, a number of honest and respectable parents were summoned for non-compliance with the Vaccination Acts. None but the very hardest hearts could have listened unmoved to the successive statements made by the parents of injuries which their children, or those of their relatives and friends, had suffered as the result of vaccination. One declared that two of his brothers had children   killed by it. The magistrates on the bench, to their praise be it known, dismissed one case on the mother's statement that her first child had suffered terrible evils through vaccination. Two other cases were adjourned in order that inquiries may be made as to the accuraoy of the parents* statements, and if true, I presume, they too will be dismissed. Two further cases were adjourned for the defendants to obtain medical certificates certifying that the injuries to their offspring were through vaccination ; but these they are scarcely likely to obtain.  "As Mr. May observed in the Medical BevieWy * It is scarcely to be expected that a medical man will give opinions which may tell against or reflect upon himself in any way. As instances of cases which may tell against the medical man himself, I will mention erysipelas from vaccination, and puerperal fever. A death from the first cause occurred not long ago in my practice, and although I had not vaccinated the child, yet, in my desire to preserve vaccination from reproach, I omitted all mention of it from my certificate of death.' Other medical men may be influenced by similar motives, and decline to incriminate their own practice.  " I hope the magistrates will see the force of this, and will not insist too strictly on the production of unobtainable medical certificates. If the parents of Leicester who object to vaccination on any grounds will attend and state their reasons to the magistrates, we now have gentlemen on the Bench who administer justice tempered with mercy, and whose noble example will spread through the country. - Yours truly,  "J. T. Biggs, Hon. Sec. L.A.C.V. League.  "f^eb. 16, 1883."   REFUSAL OF LEICESTER GUARDIANS TO PROCEED WITH DISTRAINTS.  the Leicester Guardians on January 30, by a majority of 17 to 14, adopted a reply to the inquiry of the Local Government Board with reference to their refusal to take out distraint warrants under the Vaccination Act. As might be expected, the Board boldly took their stand - not upon this or that matter of detail, but- upon the fundamental princinle of the unsoundness of compulsion, and their oDJection to be any parties whatever to its enforcement They characterise the Act as '' inconsistent and tyrannous," and hold that the spirit of the law would be met by the non-infliction of a fine in the case of everf parent whose defence is conscientious scruples. But they go fur- ther. The^ contend that the administration of the measure is likewise inconsistent with the recent declaration of the former President of the Local Government Board in connection with the Norwich disclosures, and " a. violation of liberty and justice." Under these drcumstances the Leicester Guardians hold that they are thoroughly justified in declining to apply for distraint warrants, and in thus " leaving it to the magistrates, if they think well to do so, to enforce their own orders. Now there is no doubt that this reply very fairly represents the views of the majority. But it is very doubtful whether it will receive much consideration from the Local Government Board. The Leicester Guardians may be practically told that their sole duty is to enforce the law - not to sit in judgment upon it ; to see that   the compulsory clauses do not become a dead let- ter - ^not to discuss whether they are tyrannous or otherwise. The rejoinder is, of course, obvious. Guardians have a perfect right ta decline to be any part^ to a prosecution - or rather persecution - to which they are conscientiously opposed, and they may very fairly embody their ODJection in some more unmistakable and substantial form than a barren protest. The Leicester Guardians in their action may at least be said to have had the courage of their convictions, and to have spoken out their opinions upon the question in a fashion that admits of no mistake. Having done this, they now consistenUy throw upon the Local Government Board the unenviable responsibility for all further action in the matter. It need hardly be added that the response of "My Lords " will be awaited with some curiosity. - Tfie Leicester Daily Post, Jan. 30, 188^5.   VACCINATION IN 1883.  Lord Lyti'BLTON, speaking in the House of liOrd^, on April 12, 1853, in advocacy of .the first Compulsory Vaccination Act, said: -  " We are told that the number of births regis- tered in England and Wales in the year ending Sept. 29, 1862, was 601,839, and the number vaccinated during that period under the  vaccination Act was 397,128; so that, in round numbers, 400,000 were vaccinated by the machinery in force, leaving only 200,000, or one-third of the whole number, to be treated in the numerous private vaccinations which took place. There are several important fallacies in that statement. That general result is by no means the consequence of anything like a uniform system throughout the country. I have before me a detailed statement of the extent of vaccination in various parts of England in 1851, which shows that there is great want of uniformity in certain districts. In towns where the people have a shorter distance to go to get their cbilaren vaccinated, the result is more favourable than in the rural districts. For example, in Birmingham, on the total number of births in the year 1851 the vaccinations were 91 per cent.; in Leicester they were only 41 per cent.; and in Loughborough only 18 per cent. The contrast between the manufacturing and the rural districts is favourable on the siae of the former. In Bideford, the vaccinations were only 11 percent, upon the births; in West Ashford, in Kent, they were only 22 per cent.; and in Winchcomb only 6 per cent. While the general average, however, is lower in the agricultural than in the manufacturing districts, some contrary instances are found. Thus in Derby the vaccinations are only 42 per cent., while at Wat- ford, which is a rural district, the vaccinations were 126 per cent, upon the births in 1851. That included, of course, the vaccination of children born in previous years. But in London, and in no less a parish than that of St. James's, Westminster, it is reported that in 1851 on 973 births only 44 vaccinations took place ; while in Wel- lingborough Union, where there were 800 births in 1851, no vaccination at all is reported ! "  These details are noteworthy and instructive. Strange to say, Lord Ly ttelton made no attempt *   to complete his argument. He ought to have shown that in the places where vaccination was least practised thera was most smallpox, and where most practised there was least smallpox. Had he made the attempt his eyes might nave been opened, and the country would have been saved from a cruel and costly infliction.  Lord Shaftesbury, in continuation, cited similar instances of neglected vaccination, as follows:-  Births, 1S51. VaocuiAfcions.  Paddington 1,458 ... 386  Hampstead 286 ... 93  Huntingdon 805 ... 68  St. Neots 671 ... 17  Carnarvon 929 ... 126  Bangor and Beaumaris 1,025 ... 420  Newton Abbott 1,663 ... 150  He, too, forgot to show that these places were '^ decimated " (that's the word) with smallpox, whilst other places where vaccination was gene- rally practised enjoyed exemption. On the contrary, with curious inconsequence, he went on to recommend a sure prescription of his own, namely, improved dwellings for the poor. These were hb words : -  ** It is perfectly true that smallpox is chiefly confined to the lowest classes of the population ; and I believe that with improved loi^ing-hcuses^ the duease might he ail hut exterminatedJ*  Not a doubt of if; but if improved lodging- houses would '' all but exterminate smallpox," why have gone on to waste labour and money on a superfluity like vaccination ?   JUDICIAL PEliSEOUTORS.  Stbbnhold and Hopkins ' have given good counsel to Judges persecuting the poor. Psalm Ixxxii. is worth quoting, as declaring that some- thing above Parliament-Law may sit on the bench : -  Amid the press with men of might  The Lord himself doth stand, To plead the cause of truth and right  With Judges of the land. How long (said he) will you proceed  False judgment to award, And Jbave respect for love of meed  The wicked to regard?  Whereas of due you should defend  The fatherless and weak, And when the poor man doth contend,  In judgment justly speak. If ye be wise defend the cause  Of poor men in their right, And rid the needy from the claws  Of tyrants' force and might.  Magistrates often excuse themselves, when inflicting the severest penalties upon poor parents for protecting their children from vaccination, in saving they are without choice and compelled to fulfil the law. It is a cowardlv and false excuse. The law confers upon them absolute discretion, leaving them free to entertain and allow for any sincere and reasonable objection. When, therefore, a magistrate exercises severity in such cases, he gratifies his personal malignity : he does not fulfil the law. G. W. L   "N   1THE VACCINATION INQtTIRER   COMPULSORY VACCINATION IN SWITZERLAND.  A TBLEGBAM ih the Tiifie" announces that the Great Council' of Berne has decided, by a small majority, to continue the law rendering vaccinsr tion compulsory. From this it has been inferred that the agitation against vaccination in Switzerland, indicated by. the abrogation of the Vaccina* tion Laws in the Cantons of Appenzell and GlauruSy and followed by Basle on Dec, 17, and by the suppression of compulsory  vaccination  and re-vaccination throughout the Swiss Federal Army, during the same month, had at length received a check. The Regierungsrath decided on the 29th Jan. to forward to the Grand Council the following proposals : - 1. '* That the Compulsory Vaccination Law of 1849 be not just at present repealed, but that the Regie- rungsrath be commissioned to make all neces- sary regulations to enable animal lymph to be used.'' 2. '' That a revision of the aforesaid law of 1849 be undertaken with as little delay as possible." The vaccinators have, therefore, post- poned another defeat by an adroit compromise ; out the success is not of a kind to justify much elation, the votes being 67 for and 65 against the resolution, a majority of 2. But Dr. Bruchner, of Basle, informs me that a councillor who voted with the majority has since openly declared that he has been misled by the way in which the question was submitted ; so that but for this error the votes would have recorded 56 on either side. In this case President Niggeler, who is an anti-vaccinator, would have given the casting vote for the abolition of compulsion, and the vaccination laws of Berne would now have been at an end. It may * b6 remembered that on the occasion of the popular vote on the Epi- demien Oesets, July 80, the Federal Compulsory Vaccination Law was rejected by the Bernese with a majority of 86,172, against 6,489. In November last Grand Councillor MuUer presented a petition from 8,866 burgesses and eleven common coundls, in which the reasons for their objections to the compulsoiy laws were founded, viz. : - " That vaccination does not protect. That during  smallpox  epidemics the vaccinated and re-vaccinatea are the first to be attacked. That the evil consequences which follow and attend upon vaccination are no longer denied. Each proposition being supported by elaborate statistical and other proofs. The Bernese maintain that the Grand Council has misrepresented the opinions of five-sixths of the citizens^ and it is believed that their decision will be shortly reversed. Meanwhile, the Home Ofiice observes that the number of vaccinations in Berne has of late diminished to a remarkable extent; William Tbbb.  Devonshire Club, St. James's, Feb. 1.   A HISTORICAL FALLACY.  The admitted failures of vaccination to protect its votaries from variola, and the positive and oftrecurring evils following the operation, are now explained by the chief medical officials as due - the first to the deterioration of humanised virus, and the second to the use of impure vir^8. Occa-   sionally the blame is thrown upon the vaccinator^ as upon Dr. Guy, in the Norwich cases, by Dr. Bucnanan, and upon Mr. William Legge, of the Derby Union, by Dr. F. W. Barry, in the recentiy-lseued Government reports, but the justice of the imputations is stoutly denied by these genUemen. The public Commissioners, after an exhaustive investigation of the facts, acquitted Dr. Guy, and he still retains his offidal position of public vaccinator. It is claimed by the leading champions of vaccination - ^notably Dr. Chas. Cameron and Dr. Drysdale - that no such failures attended the performance of vao- cination in the Jennerian era; and all that we have got to do is to restore the conditions when protection followed cowpox, as the green verdure follows the gentie rains. Let us see what are the true historiod facts. I have before me a copy of Vol. VI. of the Medical Observer, an ably-conducted journal, published in 1810, in which I find recorded the particulars of 585 cases of persons having smallpox after vaccination, including their names, with an index, pointing to the authorities as witnesses ; also similar details of 97 fatal cases of small*pox after vaccination, and of 150 cases of injury arisinff from vaccination, together with the addresses of ten medical men, including two Professors of Anatomy, who had suffered in their own families from vaccination.  Concerning these remarkable evidences Dr. Maclean observes : -  " Although numerous, they are few in comparison to what might be produced. It will be thought incumbent on the vaccinators to come forward and disprove the numerous facts decisive against vaccination here stated on unimpeachable authority, or make the amende honorable by a manly recantation. But experience forbids us to expeot any such fair and magnanimous proceeding, and we may be assured that, under no circumstances, will they abandon so lucrative a practice, until the practice abandons them."  I commend these prophetic words, uttered seventh-three years a^o by a well-known medical authority, to Mr. Daniel Grant, M.P., and others who look for the impartial treatment of thisquestion at the hands of the profession. Fortunately the vaccination question nas now been resolutely taken hold of by the people, who will not relinquish it until, like the Swiss, their nedcs are freed from . the galling voke of vaccine coercion-^a tyranny which for the cruelty and widespread misery it creates has not unfitly been compared to the Fugitive Slave Law twenty-five years ago in America ; and ^et this injustice and misery is the outcome of an indubitable historical fallacy, the real results of early vaccinations having been religiously ignored by those who, claiming to be the guardians of the public health, ought to have brought them to light. William Tbbb.   Movement in Massachusetts. - As a sign of the liberal sentiment of the present House of Bepresentatives in MassachusettSi it may be well to note that on Jan. 18 leave was given to Mr. Stowe, of Fall BiveTi to introduce a but for the repeal of the compulsory vaccination laws which now dishonour the statute books of this Commonwealth. - Barmer of Light, Jan. 27.   LETTER FROM MR. P. A. TAYLOR, M.P.  At the annual meeting of the Brifrhton Anti- Compalsorj Vaccination League, on Jan. 81, the following letter was read: -  22, Marine-parade, Brighton,  January 29th, 1888.  Deab Mb. Pocock, - Although I am unahle to be present at your meeting, I must send you a word of good wishes and encouragement. Friends and foes are iJike compelled to admit the great strides we have made towards sweeping away one of the most infamous laws on our Statute Book - compulsory inoculation of disease. We have already changed Imperial compulsion into Local Option. WhereTer the people are sufficiently outspoken, the wicked law becomes a dead letter. At Leicester, at Dewsbury, at Keighley, and now, as I trust, at Brighton, enforcement of the law has become impossible. Our question is far above the range of party politics. We appeal to the higher law, the eternal law of individual liberty. We stand by the Protestant demand for the sacred right of priTate judgment. Believe no man to be truly a Liberal who would violate that principle, whether on matters religious or civil. We have abolished Church rates ; we will abolish the vaccination laws. Yoiirs truly,  P. A. Taylob.   Mb. p. a. Taylob, we regret to say, has failed to secure a niffht for the introduction of his Bill for the Repeal of Compulsory Vaccination during the current session.   WraOH SHALL WE CREDIT?  Feckenham, near Redditch, February 10, 1888.  Sm, - ^My wife has received a card, warning her to protect her children from vaccination. 1, her husband^ having been a Public Vaccinator of several districts since the passing of the Compul- sory Vaccination Act, and having during the past forty years vaccinated many thousands of children, am perfectly satisiied that vaccination, properly ay^ efficiently perfcrmed, is not only a protection against the confluent form of smallpox, but that in no case does it cause either sores or any disease likely to shorten life. Any such cases that may and do occasionally arise) are those where the operation has not been properly And with efficient care been performed.  Your obedient servant,  To Mr. Wm. Young. John Leacbopt,  Vaccination, when properly and efficiently performed, prevents confluent smallpox, and produces neither sores or any disease likely to shorten life ; and when vaccination does not prevent confluent smallpox and does produce sores and disease likely to shorten life, tnen vaccination has not been pronerly and with efficient care performed. Such is the oracle that Mr. Leacro^t works t Does it deceive himself? and whom does it deceive? Dr. Browning, the Medical Officer of Health for Kotherhithe, tells a difftirent 9tory. He has recently becon^e a Caif Lympher,   and of such vaccination as Mr. Leacrof t vouched for he has to attest : -  ''That children and adults comparatively recently vaccinated with humanised lymph, .and some showing good marks, may subsequently, within a few days, months, or years, contract smallpox is an undoubted fact, probably known to all of us. I have myself recoraed 469 cases of persons, of all ages and both sexes, suffering from smallpox after vaccinadon, with 90 deaths an aversge of 21 per cent. ; and higher figures are given by Dr. Collie. Now, many of these sufferers showed good vaccine marks of the kind that would be deemed worthy of an extra grant from the Government-Inspector (at least, I used formerly to receive such erants for doing similar-looking work) ; and yet they took smallpox - some within six days, some withm six months, and some within six years of their vaccination." - On Vaccination \mth Calf-Lymph, 1882.   smallPOX IN HER MAJESTY'S NAVY  IN 1881.  [From the Statietical Report on the Health of the Navy for the year 1881. No. 364, 1882.J  In a total force, including officers and men, of 44,400, the death-rate from disease was 6*27 per 1,000.  Twenty-five cases of smallpox, with three deaths, occurred, of which four were on the home station, five on the West Coast of Africa, nine on the East Indies, and seven on the China stations.  In addition to the four ' cases of smallpox on the home station, which occurred in the Royal Adelaide f there were nineteen, cases of vaccinia. This unusually large number is accounted for by special re-vaccination being extensively carried out owing to smallpox being generally epidemic.  On the Pacific station seven cases of vaccinia are recorded ; on the West Coast of Africa^ one ; on the Australian station, one ; and in the irregular force, three.  The nine cases of smallpox recorded on the East Indies station occurred in the Eclipse, The first case, in the person of a leading seaman, aged 81, proved to be a severe one of the confluent form. This patient had been re-vaccinated two years before. He died on the eleventh day.  The second case, which also proved fatal in eleven days, was that of an able seaman', aged ^, who had been successfully re-vaccinated four years previously. Seven other cases subsequently occurred, some of which were severe, but all recovered.  Of these seven men, three are stated not to have been vaccinated since childhood, though with the stringent regulations in force in the naval service in this respect, it is hard to see how a man can escape undergoing an operation which meets him so often during his career.  Of the seven cases recorded on the China station, one, the case of a sub-lieutenant, aged 26, was a mild one. It is stated that this officer declined to be re-vaccinated three years before, when everyone else in the ship underwent the operation, Ha4 he died^ the fatal issue would   doubtless have been attributed to neglect of re-vaccination.  As showing a want of faith in their '' absolute protection,'' on the occurrence of two cases on Doard the Kestrel, all the crew were re-vaccinated, al^ough only three years had elapsed since their former vaccination ! Of two cases on board the PegasuSf one, that of the Commander, who had a £eyere attack of the disease, prQved fatal on the twelfth day.  IMPROMPTU ON VACCINE INOCULATION.  [In the Lancet of Jan. 27, the following was reprinted from the Morning Herald of Jan. 8, 1803.]  When Io'b charms had amorous Jove estrang'd, Satumia to a cow her rival chang'd ; Then Venus cry'd, ** The beauty you deface Shall shield the beauties of a future race ; Her favoured ofiEspring shall from earth remove The direst foe of beauty ! life ! and love ! **   IMPROMPTU IN REPLY.  When Milkers from the horse transferred,  The envenomed lymph to lowing herd,  ** Hail ! " Jenner cried, " Hail flowing sores !  No more mankind shall die by scores ;  But, vaccinated, live to bless  Thy saving fluid's nastiness."  He vaccinated. Strange to say,  The malady still had its way ;  Still smote with an impartial blow  Men, whether they were poxed or no. .  He vaccinated : So do we,  ¦ And still in vain, as all may see. Though doctors know the failure's true, They own it not. It would not do - Their passing igpiorance to blame, And folly own with blush of shame. " No ! No ! ** they cry, " our Jenner still Shall swell the items of our bill ; While human life must take its chance, And brave the dangers of the lance."  Jan. 27, 1883. At. All., M.D;  THE HON. FREDERICK DOUGLAS. [^Extract from a letter to Da. Dobson.]  Washington, D. C, Dec. 25, 1882. I AM with you in your opposition to Compulsory Vaccination. My logical faculty was offended at it long ago. At best it was simply boring one hole to stop another, and now it seems not even to do that, if men die of smallvpoz after vaccination.  You do me justice when you count me on the side of liberty and opposed to every species of arbitrary power. I am for the largest liberty of thought and conduct this side of crime. I am no more in favour of such power when wielded by a majority than when by an individual.   Joshua Jacob died in January, at West Grove, Pennsylvania* It will be remembered that Mr. Jacob left Limerick with his large family to avoid the mental irritation induced by prosecutions for non-vaccination. Mr. Jacob may have had additional reasons for emigration ; but we should have preferred his continued residence in Limerick to contest the evil law, for which, by means and character, he was well qualified. A few score of valiant irreconcilableslike John Savage, of Kinsale, would soon work a change for good in Ireland.   •Mortality in Madrid was unusually high in 1882. The deaths, which numbered 18,123, exceeded the births by 3,447. The population of Madrid being about 400,000, this is equivalent to a death rate of nearly 45 per thousand inhabitants, and higher than that of any other European capital. This is attributed in part to defective drainage, and in part to the cutting winds which blow from the Guadarrama hills.  Mr. Arthur Cohbn, Q.C, M.P., writing to Mr. B. Beeve, in reference to certain cases of injury from vaccination, says : - " I thank you for your letter. The cases to which you refer had . not escaped my attention, and in the letter I wrote to you some tiuLe ago, I informed you that other casea had already produced a deep impression on my mind." We are glad that Mr. Cohen is " impressed," but what many 6f his constituents in Southwark wish to know is, how he will vote when Mr. P. A. Taylor's Bill comes before the House of Commons.  Southwark Anti-Compulsory Vaccination So- ciety. - The report for the past year is an encouraging document. The income of the Society has exceeded the expenditure by £12. 14s. 6d. " Thanks to the good sense of our Guardians," writes Mr. B. Reeve, **the year has passed without any member of our Society being summoned for refusing .to have his children vaccinated. It is hoped that each member will do his best to assist in obtaining the name and address of every anti- vaccinator in Southwark; so that at the next Parliamentary election we may be in a position to secure the return of two' men pledged to vote for the entire repeal of the Vaccination Acts; for although the repeal of the compulsory clauses will be a step in the right direction, this alone will not satisfy the demands of justice. Vaccination must be disestablished and disendowed ; for it is as unjust to tax anti-vaccinators to support the public vaccination system, which costs the country up- wards of one hundred thousand pounds a year, as it is to compel dissenters to pay church rates. Let those who wis^ to have their children vaccinated have it done, by all means ; but let them pay for it, and not expect those that don't believe in it to bear part of the expense."  Dewsbury.- " W. F. F. " writes:- "As Guardians, we not only refused in 1876 to institute proceedings, but we have since passed a resolution forbidding the medical officer of the workhouse to vaccinate any of the inmates. The Local Government Board never trouble us ; they know it is of no use; but the vaccination officer frequently sum- monses defaulters, in defiance of the orders of our Board, and the Local Government Board wink at his insubordination. We have about 10,000 unvaccinated children in our Union, and rarely a case of smallpox among them. If the Leicester Guardians stand firm, they will win. Here vaccination is paralysed. Our Board, as constituted, will never give in. At Halifax our friends are up and doing, and Yorkshire generally is awakiiig."  Confession in a Corner. - The Leeds Mercury proclaimed that of nineteen cases of smallpox in Dewsbury Workhouse, seventeen were unvaeeinated - ^ah awful warning to mischievous traducers of vaccination. Of course, it was a blunder, and being corrected, humble pie was thus eaten in an inconspicuous comer of the Mercury of Feb. 9, 1882 : - ** smallpox in the Dewsbury Union. - sln- advertently in a paragraph that appeared in our Saturday's impression, it was stated that of the nineteen patients in the workhouse hospital seventeen were unvaeeinated. It should have been vaccinated." 
