TESTIMONIES of MEDICAL AUTHORITIES on VACCINATION Ox 30 JAN 09 WITH INDEX, DISTINGUISHING BY AN ASTERISK SUCH AS TREAT OF ANIMAL (cow, HORSE, OR CALF) LYMPH, WITHOUT REFERENCE TO ARM TO ARM VACCINATION. DR. BARON, in his Life of Jenner, vol. 1. page 243, says, "that matter from the pustules of the vaccinated she-ass, affords the genuine cowpox in man." But the great JOHN HUNTER says, "The introduction by inoculation of mineral or vegetable poisons into the blood, is hazardous, and in certain quantities may be destructive; but the introduction of malproducts from another living body, be it a w, com, of HEX GN ass, is infinitely more pernicious, because allred to it in being vitalised." The propagation of disease, on the pretext of thereby arresting disease, is bad in logic, wicked in morals, and futile in practice. Then, again, the testimony of the greatest authority in the world ought to be allowed to silence nobody. Intelligent persons have as much title as they to respectful consideration. We have no prelacy in science. It is easy to deal in epithets, to call those insane who differ with us, but no gentleman, nor friend of truth and honourable dealing, does it. We waive the fact that the flagrant terms of this blackguard logic apply to such men as PROF. NEWMAN, PROF. ENNEMOSER, JOHN HUNTER, and ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT. He may as well throw his filth at them as at anybody else. It does not prove that vaccine virus, being the product of animal decay, it is innocent to infuse it into healthy persons' blood. Vaccination is but a charlatan device, born of empiricism, and without a sound leg to stand on. Well-educated pathologists know this. - New York Medical Tribune, 1881. LONDON SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF COMPULSORY VACCINATION, 114, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. :0: Price Three-Pence, or Eighteen Shillings per Hundred. PREFACE. THE opposition to compulsory vaccination is based mainly upon two propositions. First, that vaccination, which was claimed by JENNER and his immediate followers to afford immunity from smallpox for life, does not afford immunity either for life, or for any portion of life, and secondly, that the operation is always attended with danger, and is sometimes fatal. The first proposition formed the subject of the tract issued by the LONDON SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF COMPULSORY VACCINATION, entitled: "Testimonies of Medical Men on the Protection Supposed to be Afforded by Vaccination, from 1805 to 1881." These testimonies demonstrate that the failures of vaccination to protect were coincident with the introduction of the JENNERIAN rite, and it is no longer denied that numerous cases of smallpox were discovered amongst patients who had received virus from JENNER's own lancet. MR. WHITE has shewn in his “Story of a Great Delusion," published in the pages of the "Vaccination Inquirer and Health Review," the subterfuges which were resorted to for concealing, denying, and explaining away these oft-recurring examples of post-vaccinal smallpox, JENNER himself giving the mot d'ordre to his professional brethren "to be slow in publishing such cases. The second proposition, that vaccination is the means of introducing serious disorders into the human system, is treated of in the following pages, which consist solely of evidence furnished by members of the profession. Some of these testimonies have been reluctantly tendered by believers in the protective efficacy of the operation. Others are avowals by heads of smallpox hospitals, medical A 2 practitioners at childrens' hospitals, public vaccinators, medical officers of health, and general practitioners; the admitted results of a large experience, which they could no longer conscientiously withhold. The alleged unanimity of the faculty concerning vaccination is often quoted as an invincible argument in its favour, but many of these testimonies (which are only a few out of hundreds of others of like character before us) prove that this claim is utterly opposed to the truth. By adroitly concealing their conflicting opinions from the public, the medical faculty gains the advantage of a unanimity which is apparent but not real. Medical Journals as a rule refuse all criticism of orthodox theories, and the exclusion is most rigidly enforced against the opponents of the state-endowed preservative. Indeed, the conduct of the press on the vaccination question goes beyond prejudice and rises into anger. When MR. HIBBERT, M.P. for Oldham, the under-secretary to the Local Government Board, stated that the reason for introducing the Government Bill in 1880, for abolishing cumulative penalties, was the occurrence of cases of syphilitic contamination following vaccination, the "Lancet" gravely charged the Government with playing into the hands of the anti-vaccinators. And there can be little doubt, that if a tenth part of the cases of injury and death caused by vaccination were disclosed by the faculty, the whole superstructure would crumble under the weight of public indig nation. What the faculty conceal, with a view, to use the words of MR. MAY, Medical Officer of Health, (see page 34) "to save vaccination from reproach," the parliamentary returns disclose ; and the following official figures shew the deadly results of this pernicious practice. The increase of infantile mortality from inoculable diseases, it will be seen, is concurrent with the more rigorous enforcement of the vaccination law. Return No. 392, Sess. 2, 1880, made by the Registrar-General to the House of Commons, shewing the annual average death-rate of infants under one, per million of births, from five causes : syphilis, scrofula tabes (internal scrofula), skin diseases, phlegmon (boils), and pyæmia (blood-poisoning), also from the causes of bron chitis and diarrhea during the septemial periods under-mentioned. The annual average increase from the five causes which are directly inoculable, and may therefore be produced by vaccination, is 3627 per million of births-and from the two indirect causes, 16209-or 20000 together, concurrently with enforced vaccination under three months old. The inclusion of children above one year might multiply the result. DR. CHARLES PIGEON, of Fourchambault, France, maintained at the Cologne International Anti-Vaccination Congress, that if doctors were made responsible for damages arising out of vaccination, they would refuse the risk, and the system would be speedily abandoned ; otherwise the profession would be financially bankrupt. The cases of injury arising from this medical prescription are now so common, that every practitioner of experience has seen them, and none will venture to deny their possibility. Hence the cry all along the line for fresh supplies of "bovine virus," calf lymph," or humanized virus with but few removes from the original heifer stock, whereby what SIR THOS. WATSON describes as the ugly blot," may be extinguished. The alleged cowpox in adult cattle, has always been a mystery to the farmer, and while its value has never been proved, its dangers have already been established. In opening the Vaccination Discussion at the Annual Meeting at Ryde, last August, the Chairman, MR. ERNEST HART, declared that a great change had come over the medical profession in respect to arm to arm vaccination. DR. WARLOMONT says, we must have a stock which, like Cæsar's wife, is above suspicion. The medical opinions here collected, will shew that the new demand is for an impossibility there never has been such a vaccine virus. The poison was always poisonous, and one proof of the risks attending vaccination is the invariable refusal of medical men to take the responsibility of the operation. They know the peril, and wisely decline the risk; which they would accept, were it like taking a bath, or any other sanitary preservative against infection. A Railway Company which in advertently injures or kills a passenger, and, under recent legislation, a manufacturer who inadvertently injures or kills an employé, incur legal liability. Why, then, should not the doctor who recommends an operation be held liable in like manner? The London College of Surgeons issued a report as early as 1806, before any genuine cowpox virus could have had time to be contaminated with the results of a nation's vices, admitting bad consequences of vaccination in 66 cases of eruptions of the skin, and in 24 cases of inflammation of the arm, whereof 3 proved fatal. (See Page 11.) Many of the testimonies which follow, refer to the dangerous results of animal virus by those who have tested it, and there is therefore no alternative but to abandon the practice altogether, which, alike in its original form and in its latest fashionable transmutation, is productive only of evil. In the meantime, although the laws whenever possible are rigidly enforced, and the consciences of thousands of upright and honest citizens are coerced, the number of intelligent and unbending recusants is daily on the increase. In the town of Leicester last year, there were 1229 prosecutions for non-vaccination, the popular instinct judiciously preferring the pains and penalties of the law without cowpox, to the costly risks with it. In Keighley, according to the latest return issued by the Board of Guardians, no more than 12 per cent of the births are vaccinated, and yet we are told there has only been one case of smallpox for 5 years. How long will the constituencies connive at injustice, by continuing to send Members to Parliament, who persistently shut their eyes to the facts, and ignore the plain teachings of So years of vaccinal suffering and wholesale distribution of useless and unmerited disease, based on no scientific fact, and contributing no share in the lessening of the national death rate ?-W.T. London, March, 1882. THE LONDON SOCIETY Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination. FOR THE OBJECTS OF THE SOCIETY. 1. The Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination. II. - The Diffusion of Knowledge concerning Vaccination. III. DR. SQUIRRELL, of the London smallpox Hospital, a Contemporary of JENNER, Opposed vaccination on the ground that we have already too many maladies; that it affords no security against smallpox ; and that it was frequently followed by injurious consequences, in support of which conclusions he instanced thirty-nine cases. DR. PEARSON, 1799. This intimate friend and coadjutor of JENNER, in a letter to him, describes the eruptions in the vaccinated patients in London. “You will be astonished at my talking of eruptions, but it now appears in DR. WOODVILLE'S cases, that as many have cruptions on the body as have them only in the parts inoculated. I inoculated an infant yesterday in DR. WOODVILLE's presence, from a patient ill of the cowpox with eruptions on his body to the amount of two or three hundred .... On telling DR. WOODVILLE that I had been anxious about your publishing the use of the caustic, he replied, That would have damned the whole business. Be assured that, if the practice [of vaccination cannot be introduced without the caustic, it will never succeed with the public."--Life of Fenner, by Baron, i. 313, 315. JOHN BIRCH, Surgeon Extraordinary to the Prince of Wales, and Surgeon to St. Thomas's Hospital, 1804-7. I have thought it a duty to publish my answer to the questions of the College of Surgeons, and my letter to the College of Phy sicians. In the last of these I have adduced no less than seven cases of death caused by vaccination. I could add more, but the cases adduced are enough to refute the assertions made to the House of Commons, that vaccination might be safely adopted because it was never fatal. I have known several bad effects occur in consequence of vaccination. The case of REBECCA LATCHFORD is published: spring and fall she is usually visited with some eruption or suppu ration about the face or arm. I have also seen more than two cases similar to that of JOWLES, in which the face has been principally attacked. By some vaccinators these eruptions are called scrofula : but how can this be reconciled with the positive assurance of a justly celebrated surgeon, on which parliament to relied ; that neither scrofula, nor any other disease, was excited by vaccination. Besides the singular eruptions above mentioned, I have seen many others of a very itching nature, and some shrivelled scaly skins consequent on cowpox. CAPTAIN BUTTS, of the Navy, lost an infant from an eruption which took place immediately from the affection of the arm. I have information from Hertford of five cases of smallpox occurring after vaccination, in four of which the patients died. In Lambeth Workhouse several died of smallpox subsequent to Vaccination. In respect of the consequences of vaccination I am compelled to declare, that I see new and anomalous eruptions following this disease; eruptions, which in the whole course of my former practice I never met with, and which I must conscientiously refer to this novel practice. MR. BIRCH concludes as the result of observation and experience: 1. That cowpox has in more than one instance proved fatal. 2. That cowpox is productive of new appearances of disease, unknown before in the catalogue of human impurities. 3. That cowpox is not by any means to be depended on as a security against the natural smallpox. *EXTRACT FROM THE REPORT OF THE FIRST VACCINE INSTITUTION : "It is our duty to acknowledge that four or five cases have proved fatal from the affection of the part vaccinated." Dr. LETTSOM, 1805, Was one of JENNER'S coadjutors in introducing the cowpox. A friend of DR. LETTSOM, writing in the Gentleman's Magasine for 1802, says: "It has been disputed of the old inoculation, whether any other disease could be transmitted with the smallpox: DR. LETTSOM grants there may, which is a serious hazard." O WILLIAM ROWLEY, a Member of the University of Oxford, and of the Royal College of Physicians in London ; Physician Extraordinary to Her Majesty's Lying-in-Hospital, 1805 ; Public Lecturer on the Theory and Practice of Medicine, &c. In 1805, wrote: It results from the general resumé of all these authentic facts, that out of 504 persons vaccinated in England, 75 died from the consequences, and almost all have had the small II pox, some sooner, some later, after their vaccination. There is no question here of supposition or calculation of probability, it is truth! It is evidence which seems to speak and leaves no doubt. Now, if in the space of 7 or 8 years, (from 1798 to 1805.) vaccination has shown itself so grievous to society, what may we not fear for the future? It will scarcely be imagined that the facts mentioned are all that might be cited to prove the inefficiency and dangers of the practice. Alas! it is too certain that on all sides we meet with new instances of maladies such as those already detailed. Consider England, France, Germany, Italy, and other countries, where vaccination has been received ; penetrate into the interior of houses, into the bosom of families; interrogate fathers and mothers, and you will be surprised, shocked, and even enraged to see, not only tolerated but maintained, a murderous practice, which carries desolation into families, and compromises the reputation of those who protect or practise it. LONDON COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, 1806. Eleven hundred circulars were dispatched on 15th December, 1806, to all the members of the College whose addresses were known in the United Kingdom, submitting the following questions Ist. How many persons have you vaccinated ? 2nd. Have any of your patients had smallpox after vaccination; 3rd. Have any bad effects occurred in your experience in conse quence of vaccination ? and if so, what were they? 4th. Is the practice of vaccination increasing or decreasing in your neighbourhood ? if decreasing, to what cause do you impute it? To the 1100 circulars only 426 replies were received. Why nearly two-thirds of the members kept silent, when at the outset they were converted in multitudes to Vaccination, is left unex plained. The replies were thus summarised by the Board on 17th March, 1807 The number of persons stated in such letters to have been vaccinated, is 164,381. The number of cases in which smallpox had followed vaccina tion is 56. The Board think it proper to remark under this head, that, in the enumeration of cases in which smallpox has succeeded vaccination, they have included none but those in which the subject was vaccinated by the surgeon reporting the facts. The bad consequences which have arisen from vaccination are 66 cases of eruption of the skin, and 24 of inflammation of the arm, whereof 3 proved fatal. B 2 I 2 Vaccination, in the greater number of counties from which reports have been received, appears to be increasing: in the metropolis it is on the decrease. The principal reasons assigned for the decrease are Imperfect vaccination, Instances of smallpox after vaccination, Supposed bad consequences, Publications against the practice, Popular prejudices. DR. GREENE, BOSTON, U.S., 1806, Reported to the Boston Society of Medical Improvement a fatal case of erysipelas following re-vaccination. DR. JENNER, Writing to JAMES MOORE, in 1810, said, "When I found DR. WOODVILLE about to publish his pamphlet relative to the eruptive cases at the smallpox Hospital, I intreated him in the strongest terms, both by letter and conversation, not to do a thing that would so much disturb the progress of vaccination.”- Life of Jenner, ii., 374. DR. CAPADOSE, The Hague, Holland, 1823. We may expect a similar effect of vaccination as if we tried to protect the body against those terrible ulcers by inoculating their virus; and if inoculation of smallpox be dangerous, vaccination must be so too. The deleterious virus in the lymph being a poisonous germ, the application of it will be tantamount to poison ing the blood, whether the lymph be taken from cows or from children. As every remedy ought to be applied according to the particular constitution, the state of health, and the disposition of the patient, the uniform and universal use of the same means or virus promiscuously to every person, whether infant, adult, or aged person, will cause the prophylactic remedy, like all specifics, to be condemned as quackery. No one can tell what will be the effect of the nostrum upon the health of every one to whom it is ad ministered. Science is plunged into an ocean of uncertainty, and the more you re-vaccinate the more you will complicate your course; and as it ought to be left to every one to take care of his own health and that of his children, or to take the advice of the physician in whom he has confidence, and to follow the way his constitution requires, compulsory vaccination ought not to be entertained.-Bestryding der Vaccine. 2nd Edition. 13 GEORGE GREGORY, M.D., 1840. I have heard the particulars of a case where crysipelas and cowpox co-existed, and the lymph being unfortunately taken, both diseases were communicated to the child. I have no experience bearing on the question whether measles can be communicated along with cowpox, but it would be going too far to say that such a thing is impossible. As little have I to say practically on the question of communicating syphilis by means of the vaccine virus, but I am not prepared to deny the possibility of such an occurrence. DR. JENNER, as we all know, laid great stress on the danger of vaccinating while the system was pre-occupied by herpes, lepra, or psoriasis. I have frequently seen the vaccine vesicle assume the leprous character ; nor can I doubt that the combination of the leprous and true vaccine disease would be propagated, yone were so unwise as to employ such degenerated lymph. London Medical Gazette. P. 658. Vol. xxvi. DR. HENRY COLES, Cheltenham, 1840. A medical friend in this place, (much my senior, and whose authority, consequently, is much weightier than mine,) lately pronounced on an eruptive case, that it arose from the child having been vaccinated from an unhealthy subject. I have been astonished at the number of persons from whom I have heard of this child turned into a most horrid spectacle;" and I find that the caution of parents (always in the extreme on this point), has of late been aggravated to a very annoying extent. It is not enough to be able to answer for the parents of the child, but I have had enquiries put to me respecting the preceding generation, and if the fancies and fears of the idle and wealthy are to be sanctioned and encouraged, it will be soon expedient that practitioners in this place should furnish themselves with the genealogy of all the clodpoles in Gloucestershire, together with a record of the integrity of their constitutions, and a voucher for the purity of their morals.-London Medical Gazette. P. 626. Vol. xxvi. THE LANCET, March 30th, 1840. It appears that there still exists in Italy, not only among the people, but many medical men, a great prejudice against vaccination ; diseases which occur after vaccination being often attributed to the inoculation of the virus. DUBLIN JOURNAL OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, 1844, Publishes a series of cases of erysipelas following vaccination. 14 PROFESSOR JOSEPH JONES, M.D. It is said that in 1849-50 Erysipelas so frequently followed vaccination in Boston, and the result was so often fatal, that many physicians refused to vaccinate, except when it was absolutely necessary, and almost entirely abandoned re-vaccination. Researches upon Spurious Vaccination, Nashville, Tennessee, U.S. PROFESSOR BARTLETT, of New York, 1850, Lecturing at the University of New York, in 1850, on the causes of pulmonary consumption, quoted on the authority of two eminent French physicians, DR. BARTHEZ and DR. RILLIEZ, the following important facts connected with vaccination : "Of 208 children that had been vaccinated, 138 died of tubercular consumption, and 70 of other maladies. In 95 who were not vaccinated, only 30 died of tubercular consumption, and 65 of other diseases." The circum stances, adds DR. BARTLETT, "connected with the two classes, the vaccinated and un-vaccinated, were, as nearly as could be the same." DR. VERDE DE LISLE, 1850. How is it that in an enlightened century, the Academy of Medicine, which is the centre and stimulus of this great question, tries to support a pitiable prejudice, not by solid and irrefutable reasons, but by pomposity, prizes, medals, and admonitions ? It is high time, in the interest of science and humanity, to stop, and show how this vile, beastly corruption of the blood has injured our race. It is high time for the Academy to take up again this question among its labours, if it would not burden itself with a heavy respon sibility for all the misery with which vaccination has already afflicted from three to four generations. It is time to examine whether JENNER and his coadjutors, in order to have their so called protective remedy against smallpox adopted, had the dishonest view to deceive the Government and public about the real nature of their specific. In case of an affirmative answer, we will ask the Academy : I. Whether by the transplantation of a skin disease from an animal to the human creature, other affections beside a skin disease are not transferred? 2. Whether, in consequence of the transfer of these skin diseases. the absorbing and resorbing ability of the skin vessels is not also partly destroyed ? 3. Whether, in consequence of this effect, the loathsome eruptive matters destined by nature to be thrown out of our economy, do not find an insurmountable barrier in the skin, and are therefore com 15 pelled to develop themselves in the interior in various forms; and whether these vaccinal disorganisations are not infinitely more serious, and a hundred times more fatal, than the natural smallpox, which the vaccine poisoning offers to prevent ? 4. Whether the number of these diseases, which have so luxuriantly grown since the introduction of the cowpox, are not the effects of vaccination ? DR. NITTINGER, of STUTTGART, 1850. How rapidly does the scourge progress! The terrible, ominous commotion begins already the first, fourth, seventh, and ninth day after the vaccination ; many, many children fall its victims; and again others are more fortunate, but mostly some misery remains. The mucous membranes, particularly those of the organs of the senses and generation, in adults,) attest the sufferings and dangers originating in the inoculated kine pox poison-ophthalmia, otorrhoea, fluor albus, prurigo, &c.Evils of Vaccination. • DR. COPELAND, 1850. Just half a century has elapsed since the discovery and in troduction of vaccination, and after a quarter of a century of the most transcendant laudation of the measure, and after another quarter of a century of reverberated encomiums from well-paid Vaccination Boards, raised with a view of overbearing the increased murmurings of disbelief (now rapidly increasing) among those who observe and think for themselves : the middle of the nineteenth century finds the majority of the profession in all latitudes and hemispheres, doubtful as to the preponderance of advantages present and prospective, to be obtained either from inoculation or vaccination. DR. COPELAND also says,--that vaccination favours the prevalence of several forms of scrofula..-Dictionary of Practical Medicine. P. 823. THE MEDICAL TIMES & GAZETTE for Jan. Ist, 1854, Also informs us that consumption " has widely spread since the introduction of vaccination, and within ten years (ending 1853) had slain its 68,204 victims in the metropolis alone." THE LANCET, July 15th, 1854. There is a belief, it may be denounced as a prejudice, but it is not the less a deeply rooted conviction, and one not confined to the 16 poor or the ignorant, that, if the vaccine disease may be transmitted by inoculation, other diseases, less beneficial, may be propagated in the same manner, and by the same operation. Many a parent of high and low degree, dates constitutional disease in her offspring to vaccination with bad matter. Who should say that this etiological conclusion is always false ? THE LANCET, Nov. Ilth, 1854. So widely extended is the dread that along with the prophylactic remedy something else may be inoculated-lest the germ of future disease may be planted, that few medical practitioners would care to vaccinate their own children from a source of the purity of which they were not well assured. I tha DR. R. T. TRALL, New York, 1855. Physicians are not at all agreed as to the propriety of resorting to vaccination as a protection from smallpox. There is no question that it is, to a great extent, a protection from the virulence and danger of the natural smallpox; at the same time, there is danger of inoculating the patient with some loathsome, and even worse disease, as syphilis or scrofula, from the impossibility of always getting a supply of matter from healthy constitutions. In either way there is a risk to incur, and it is a delicate matter for a physician to advise on a subject when both sides are hazardous. I am fully convinced, that if people could bring up their children in strict physiological habits, the non-vaccinating plan would be best : but in a city this seems next to impossible, and in the country it is pretty generally neglected. Children reared healthily in relation to food, exercise, and ventilation, have little to fear from any disease, however contagious; they may have this (smallpox), but it will not endanger life, nor produce much deformity, nor serious injury. I have seen within the last year a most horridly loathsome case of scrofulous disease, in which the patient literally rotted alive at the age of 15, from unhealthy virus received when he was but three years of age. Parents often find some of their children tainted with morbid humours, unlike any other member of the family, and which they are wholly unable to account for, except on the supposition of foul matter taken into the system by vaccination. My own practice would be to keep children as healthy as possible ; and if the smallpox happen, let it have its natural course.--Hydropathic Encyclopedia. P. 96 & 97. Dr. T. S. McALL, of Greenock. I have every reason to believe that lymph taken from a party with hereditary disease, conveys that disease with it.-Reply to Circular of Medical Officer of Privy Council,as to Vaccination, 1856. DR. HAMERNIK, Prague. The operation of vaccination is not in itself so insignificant as has been supposed, and very frequently is followed by results more or less injurious. At one period it was declared that from 1 to 2 per cent. of vaccinated cases ended fatally. Cases have frequently been observed in which vaccination has been followed by St. Vitus' dance, swelling of the glands of the shoulder and arm, abscesses, withering up of the punctured and the surrounding parts, accompa nied by shivering attacks ; increased heat of the body, heightened pulse, &c. The deaths that have ensued from vaccination seem to have been caused by pyamia, so-called, following upon it.-Reply to Circular, Medical Officer of Privy Council, 1856. DR. LEVER, Physician to Guy's Hospital, London. I have known syphilis communicated to a child by the hand of a legally educated medical practitioner.-Reply to Circular of Medical Officer of Privy Council. 1856. DR. JOEL SHEW, Cincinnati, U.S. Commenting on a case of death from vaccination which was reported in the New York Journal, Medical and Surgical," gives a case of a lady whose health had been injured by vaccination, and adds, In two other cases large swellings took place; one in the arm-pit, the other in the neck, lasting for some days, and finally breaking out in running sores. By questioning closely, we not unfrequently find that children never enjoy good health after vaccination, however firm it might have been before. In another place the same author says, After all the recommendation that this practice has had for the last 50 years, there are yet those who entertain honest doubts as to whether it is, after all, on the whole, a benefit to the race. At any rate, the question, like all others, has two sides; both of which demand our most honest consideration. It is certainly true that vaccination does not merit the encomiums which its more early advocates put upon it ; nor is it anything like capable of extermi nating smallpox from the world, as was formerly maintained ; but 18 that it will, in a large proportion of cases, protect the system from variola, and that in those cases where it fails of this protection it renders the disease a much milder one, no one will pretend to deny. The only question is whether, as a whole, it is of benefit to mankind. It is maintained that vaccination, while it affords a good degree of protection from variola, yet renders the system more liable to other diseases. It is affirmed also, that other diseases are introduced into the system at the same time with the cowpox. Long-continued and troublesome skin diseases appear to follow it, and in not a few cases the child seems never to enjoy good health after it has been performed. I think any one who has any considerable practice among children in any great city, will be struck with the number of cases he will find of this kind, by questioning parents on the subject..... Not only does vaccination cause subsequent unfavourable effects, but it sometimes endangers life at the time; and in some instances destroys the child. I have myself known most fearful convulsions to be brought on by it, and that in children apparently of the firmest health. Again he says, I have been for years so much a disbeliever in vaccination, that I would not be willing to have it practised upon a child of my own. -Letter to President, Board of Health, by JOHN GIBBS, Esq. Ordered to be printed by the House of Commons, March 31st, 1856. DR. W. F. LAURIE, L.R.C.P., L.S.A., Dunstable. I vaccinated a child with pure lymph (reputed to be) from the Royal Vaccine Institution. The child, though previously apparently healthy, has ever since been nearly blind ; opacities of the cornea developing themselves immediately after the operation. This case, and several others from other vaccinators, at Edlesborough, where it was performed, have militated very much against the practice of vaccination amongst the poor.-Letter to MR. JOHN GIBBS, quoted in a Parliamentary Return, dated 31st March, 1856. D. JOSEF HERMANN, Chief of the Imperial Wiede Hospital, Vienna, from 1858 to 1864. When a man has treated hundreds of cases of smallpox, both under sporadic and epidemic conditions, through many years and at all seasons, he comes to the decided conclusion that vaccination has not the remotest effect on the outbreak, course, or issue of the disease. Vaccinated persons, bearing unmistakeable marks of the process on their arms, frequently have confluent smallpox; while, at the same time, unvaccinated people have it in the mildest form. These observations, resting upon the most indubitable truth, appear 19 to have given occasion to the distinction between a genuine and a modified smallpox (varicella)-a distinction evidently made with the view of maintaining at all hazards the dogma to which vaccina tors have committed themselves, as to the influence of vaccination in modifying the outbreaks of the epidemic. These clinical subtleties, belonging to the category of chimeras, have long since proved to be illusory; in reality, there is no such distinction; for, even in a m nild epidemic of varicella, a careful observer will be able to discover amongst the sufferers fully developed pustules of smallpox , possessing every attribute of the true and genuine pustule. From the Naturarst. * DR. JOHN EPPS, 25 years Director of the Jennerian Institute, had vaccinated about 120,000 people, but finally declared, 1861 The vaccine virus is a poison. As such it penetrates all organic systems, and infects them in such a way as to act repressively on the pox. It is neither antidote nor corrigent, nor does it neutr smallpox, but only paralyses the expansive power of a good constitution, so that the disease has to fall back upon the mucous membrane. Nobody has the right to transplant such a mis chievous poison compulsorily into the life of a child. If the vaccine virus be not eliminated in the form of a genuine vaccine vesicle, the system is unquestionably poisoned. And again :--If the vaccine lymph does not produce the vaccine disease, it produces something else-1.2., a noxious agent is introduced to poison the system against the poison of smallpox; but if it does not produce this effect, it still poisons, without the benefit superadded of protection from smallpox.—London Vaccine Institute Report, 1863. PROFESSOR RICORD, M.D., Paris. If the transmission of disease is clearly demonstrated, vaccination must be altogether discontinued. For in the present state of science, we are in possession of no criterion that may permit the conscientious practitioner to assert that the lymph with which he inoculates is perfectly free from admixture with tainted blood. Lecture at the Hotel Dien, Paris, 1862. At first I repelled the idea that syphilis could be transmitted by vaccination. The recurrence of facts appearing more and more confirmatory, I accepted the possibility, but still with reserve and even with repugnance; but to-day I hesitate no longer to proclaim their reality !-Address at the Academy of Medicine, Paris, May 19th, 1863 C2 20 Dr. CHARLES CAMERON, M.P. My position is simply this-I suspect that isolated examples of syphilitic infection through vaccination are much more common in this country than is generally admitted. For the chance of the occurrence of such isolated cases is infinitely greater than that of a wholesale outbreak of vaccinal syphilis, and when such wholesale outbreaks have been noted, I cannot help feeling certain that many isolated cases of infection have occurred without their nature being detected or admitted.-Letter to MR. W. HUME-ROTHERY, December 24th, 1879. MEDICAL TIMES & GAZETTE of May 30th, 1863. On the 14th May, 1863, Mr. WELLS vaccinated a lady, the mother of a family. taking good matter from the vesicle of a healthy child: immediately upon making the punctures the patient swooned. A visit on the following morning disclosed the fact of very singular symptoms having set in ; the arm was much swollen, and had a dark purplish hue, much resembling the colour of a bullock's liver, the punctures nearly invisible, and the whole region of the operation presenting the appearance of having been bitten by some venomous reptile. The symptoms grew rapidly worse, entirely baffling medical skill, and the patient died on the 18th, of phlegmonous erysipelas. Dr. O. Mr ATZ, Surgeon, Confederate Army, U.S.A. After reporting cases of vaccine syphilis, says, “I have seen one case, where the product of vaccination was Sumpetigo rodens, a frightful disease of, I believe, a cancerous character. Some cases had herpes excdens, as the result of vaccination on their arms. Confederate States Medical and Surgical Journal, pp. 104, Vol. 1. 1864. DR. COLLINS, M.D., Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, M.R.C.S., Eng., &c., 1866. I have no faith in vaccination; nay, I look upon it with the greatest possible disgust, and firmly believe that it is often the medium of conveying many filthy and loathsome diseases from one child to another, and no protection whatever against sinall pox. Indeed, I consider we are now living in the JENNERIAN epoch for the slaughter of innocents, and the unthinking portion of the adult population.-(Twenty years experience of a Public Vaccinator.) 21 DR. FRANK HASTINGS HAMILTON, late Lieutenant Colonel, Medical Inspector, United States Army. Vaccination almost constantly produces the same results (1.e., ugly and untractable sores), and is in many cases followed by abscesses in the axillary, cervical, and other glands. Treatise on Military Surgery, quoted by PROFESSOR JONES, in Researches upon Spurious Vaccination. P. 26. 1867. JOSEPH JONES, M.D. Professor of Physiology and Pathology, University, Nashville, U.S. 1868. The Federal prisoners confined in Camp Sunpter, Andersonville, Georgia, were vaccinated, and in a number of cases large gangre nous ulcers appeared at the points where the vaccine lymph had been inserted, causing extensive destruction of tissues, exposing arteries, nerves and bones, and necessitating amputation in more than one instance. From the establishment of the prison, on Feb. 24, 1864, to Oct. 1, over 10,000 Federal prisoners died-1.c., near one-third of the entire number perished in less than seven months. These accidents led to the belief among some of the prisoners that the surgeons had intentionally introduced poisonous matter into their arms during vaccination. No wonder they had such a per suasion, seeing that about too of them lost the use of their arms, and about 200 were so injured that they soon afterwards died. Though some medical officers were tried before a special in commission. convened in accordance with orders from the War office at Washington, on the charge of having wilfully poisoned the Federal prisoners with vaccine lymph, it was shown that the unhappy consequences of vaccination at Andersonville were paralleled in the Northern prisons. "After careful inquiries," says DR. JONES," among returned Confederate prisoners, I am convinced that the accidents attending vaccination were quite as numerous and severe in Northern prisons as in Southern." - Researches upon "Spurions Vaccination, or, the Abuormal Phenomena accompany ing and following Vaccination in the Confederale Army during the recent American Civil War, 1861-65. By JOSEPH JONES, M.D., Professor of Physiology and Pathology in the Medical Department of the University of Nashville, Tenn. (U.S.) T. MASSEY HARDING, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., House Surgeon to Middlesex Hospital; Public Vaccinator for 12 years in Worcestershire. When a child is vaccinated about that time (dentition), and some eruption succeeds, it is difficult to say whether the vaccination or the dentition is the cause. It is not right, however, to view this 22 popular prejudice as a silly, groundless feeling, deserving only of ridicule. Deep-rooted popular opinions have generally a substratum of truth, and certainly some eruptive diseases have come on so immediately after vaccination as to render it extremely probable that the operation was the real cause of the eruption. These erup tions are generally of an eczematous nature the skin is red, a serous fluid exudes freely. Most writers consider dentition the starting point, and regard its occurrence after vaccination as a coincidence. This may be so, but the explanation certainly does not satisfy the parents of children in whom the eruption takes place immediately after vaccination, and would not satisfy me if it occurred in my own child in a few days after the punctures were made, and at the same time as the vesicle commenced. I bear in mind at this moment that a gentleman, aged fifty-six, not subject to any eruption, was re-vaccinated. The arm was violently in flamed, the matter, as he expressed it, took well. I have previously explained how mistaken such an expression is. This gentleman now, some two or three years after vaccination, is a martyr to an eczematous eruption over the body, and is himself much inclined to blame the vaccination. Some gentlemen, on the other hand, are such enthusiasts as to think that vaccination is capable of curing skin diseases of every variety, and gravely propose to employ it as a curative agent in skin diseases, including the syphilitic eruptions. - From smallpor and Vaccination, published by the Ladies' Sanitary Association, London, 1868. DR. BALLARD, now one of Her Majesty's Vaccine Inspectors, Summed up the evidence as follows: 1.-There are numerous cases on record to prove that the vaccine virus and the syphilitic virus may be introduced at the same spot by the same puncture of the vaccinating lancet. 2.-From several instances on record, there can remain no reasonable doubt that the vaccine virus and the syphilitic virus may both be drawn at the same time, upon the same instrument, from one and the same vesicle. 3.-The vesicle which is thus capable of furnishing both vaccine and syphilitic virus may present, prior to being opened, all the normal and fully developed characters of a true Jennerian vesicle, as ordinarily met with.-Essay on Vaccination. Published 1868. DR. B. F. CORNELL, M.D., President of the Homeopathic Medical Society, of New York. It is my firm conviction that Vaccination has been a curse instead of a blessing to the race; every physician knows that cutaneous 23 diseases have increased in frequency, severity, and variety, to an alarming extent. Not only the ancient forms of eruptive disease, scrofula, psora, erysipelas, tetter, &c., but new varieties are making their appearance, for which no satisfactory cause can be given, unless they are a compound of all the others, with a sprinkling of venereal to give them respectability; and, as contemporaries, a corresponding increase of chronic disease of all the internal organs. To what is this increase owing ? contagion may account for some of the varieties; in a large majority, however, to no medium of transmission is the widespread dissemination of this class of disease so largely indebted as to Vaccination. Address delivered be fore the Homcopathic Medical Society of New York, Feb. 11th, 1868. * Dr. MCCONNELL REED, M.D., L.R.C.P. Edin., 1869. While some members of the medical profession declare it to be the result of their experience and general observation, that the practice of vaccination has increased the susceptibility to pulmonary con sumption in adults, and the general mortality of infants and children -can you be surprised at the fact that there is a growing disinclination on the part of conscientious parents to submit to have their children vaccinated by compulsion ? I confess that with my own experience as a medical practitioner, and with the knowledge of the experience and opinions of others capable of forming a correct judgment on this subject, I cannot advise my patients to have their children vaccinated : but I would strongly advise the Government to adopt measures to bring about a speedy repeal of the compulsory clauses of the vaccination acts.-Anglesea Place, Commercial Road, London, E. Dr. SPENCER T. HALL, M.A. He said his attention had long been drawn to this question, and the more he had looked into it, the more he had found evidence abounding in various parts of the kingdom-and this in every rank of life-of instances of persons being more unhealthy after vaccination than they were before. People of rank did not like to confess to the world that their blood was contaminated, though many of them had to mourn the fact in private life. Almost without exception and he said this without unkindly feeling towards his medical brethren it would be found that if a person well off wanted a child vaccinated, the doctor would seldom go to the parish 24 pauper for his lymph; but while this was going on, the poor pauper children were being vaccinated from one another by hundreds. Let us look this question fairly in the face. Southport Visitor, Aug. 24th, 1869. in for MR.J.D. BROWN, F.R.C.S.E., L.S.A., of Haverford-west. I have been 30 years in the profession, and have never vaccinated a child without trembling for the results : never sent to for vaccine without a qualm of conscience, supplied (as it is well known to be) from the lowest grade of infected children, born of parents steeped in the most loathsome diseases, highly communicative by blood, lymph, and matter, and from that den of collected human ruin our pure lymph (save the mark!) is obtained. This discovery that immortalised JENNER rescued the human race from the cruel tyranny and the hideous stamp of smallpox. Since that day the pure stream has passed through millions of human beings, taking some evil out of each certainly all that can pass from blood to lymph, and therefore all that can be conveyed from man to man. What a tide of corruption it is by this time, I leave your readers to imagine, and how far it has lost its pristine power: how much polluted it must be with many nameless diseases, had better remain untold. Can we blame a mother, or punish a father, for refusing to convey this poison into their offspring's blood-a poison perhaps reeking with the stamp of a curse that never dies out till the awful sentence is fulfilled, and the fourth generation has suffered, in whose tomb it lies buried ?-Milford Haven Telegraph, Sept. 22nd, 1869. O DR. CHARLES KIDD It is satisfactory to find that the poor woman imprisoned for neglect of vaccination has been set at liberty. HUDIBRAS tells us of certain Puritans who are ever so exacting, perverse, and in the right, that they seem to worship God for spite. So it is to be feared of the animal vaccinators from the heifer, gushing sensationalists, and others who would wish to keep this woman in gaol, to point the moral of their new fangles. It is clear that we want some relaxation of these penal clauses as to vaccination. We want vaccination to be left in its natural channel, amongst proper medical men-not enforced by handcuffs and gaols, and the tender mercies of the police and mechanical-minded public vaccinators. I have seen a terrible disease in an infant that I could not, after the utmost inquiry, find 25 out to be due to anything but this compulsory vaccination of children in shoals, without discrimination. Such a thing could not happen in France or Ireland, where dispensary men are careful, conscientious, and well-educated; men who vaccinate half-a-dozen infants, perhaps, in a week,—not a hundred higgledy-piggledy by Act of Parliament. The mere crowding together of the children is a source of disease in itself. We have inspectors, who inspect after the harm is done ; but what we want is less inspecting, and better preparation of the children for the operation, and an accurate and good vaccine lymph.-CHARLES KIDD, M.D., Sackville Street. Anti-Vaccinator, Oct. 2nd, 1869. * Dr. M. G. EVANS, M.D., Public Vaccinator for 16 years. Narberth, 1869. Animal vaccination has been extensively tried on the Continent, and may have many good points about it ; but competent judges affirm that the lymph obtained direct from the heifer acts too violently; and where could parties be found willing to supply heifers to keep up a stock of lymph ? It is well known that in this country much more attention in general is devoted to the health of those animals, than is bestowed upon the health of the children of their proprietors, and who would not, for a small consideration, permit their stock to be operated on. Again; would it be justifiable to introduce into the system of animals a virus said to reek with the stamp of a curse, which animals (at some future date) are inevitably destined to become the food of man? Assuredly not. The idea is as loathsome as it is impracticable.-Anti-Vaccinator, October 23rd, 1869. *DR. STOWELL. [Twenty-five years a vaccine practitioner.] The nearly general declaration of my patients enables me to proclaim that vaccination is not only an illusion, but a curse for humanity. More than ridiculous-it is irrational to say that any corrupt matter taken from boils and blisters of an organic creature, could affect the human body otherwise than to injure it. First, it was asserted that vaccination protected for life. When this proved a failure, re-vaccination in every seventh year was proposed ; but this also failed. Then there was a want of sufficient cowpox. Well, cows were inoculated with human pox, and the suppurated matter produced by this operation was called pox-lymph, fresh from the cow. This bastard poison is 26 now transferred into human bodies, no matter what disease man or brute may have had ; but it is called now-a-days "genuine vaccine." This pure lymph is carried from child to child, and spreads a diseased condition, so that hospitals and drug shops have increased 80 per cent., and continue to do so from day to day. What are 450 physicians of the Bluebook, while there are in London alone 3,000 physicians ? I myself know the names of a hundred physicians who think like me.-Lancet, 1870. * Dr. BAYARD. For my part when I used to vaccinate, I observed many cases of ulcers sufficiently dangerous to necessitate particular care; and mothers, also, have said to me “My child has never been well since it was vaccinated." Consumption seized upon them and many succumbed. With this cow (or horse) virus I had introduced a germ of disintegration, and my preservative did not preserve them from smallpox.-Essay on Vaccination, after 35 years experience. London, 1870. Translated by GEORGE S. GIBBS, Darlington. MR. JOHN PRATT, M.R.C.S., Durham, 1870, Was recently summoned, and he said to the magistrates: My child has not been vaccinated. I have reasons for not obeying the vaccination laws. I obeyed the law with respect to my first child, and the consequence is, that it has been seriously injured by the operation. Being a professional man, I used all the precaution I could in selecting good matter ; but in spite of all that, my child has been considerably injured. Under these circumstances, I came to the de termination that I would never vaccinate another child of my own or anybody's. I have considered the vaccination question for a number of years, and have gone minutely into it, both for and against ; and the only conclusion I can arrive at is-that vaccination has no beneficial effect whatever, but that it inflicts very serious injuries. This being my opinion, I cannot conscientiously do an injury to any man's child, which I would do if I obeyed the vaccination laws.-Co-operator, July 30th, 1870. * Mr. R. CEELY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., of Aylesbury. DR. SEATON says (Hand-book of Vaccination. P. 337) :-There is no one in England whose opinion on the subject of animal vaccination will be received with so much respect as MR. CEELY's, 27 because there is no one who has nearly the knowledge that he possesses of the disease in the cow, and its transmission to the human species. He looks upon this proceeding as not only open to the objection of impractibility as applied to the general popu lation, and of unsuccess; but he says also, that so far from being likely to produce fewer ailments, and cutaneous eruptions in the pre disposed, he knows from his experience that it would, as being more irritating, produce more. DR. SKELTON, M.D., Licentiate in Medicine and Surgery, London, Edinburgh, and Glasgow; Author of the "Family Medical Adviser," "Science and Practice of Medicine," "Midwifery: its Complications, Diseases, &c., 1870." The blood of the people is saturated with scrofulous and tuberculous diseases; and the prevailing opinion among thousands of the most thoughtful, non-professional and professional, is, that vaccination has much to do with it. DR. CHAPMAN, In recording a case of eczema, resulting from vaccination, says: It may be here observed that chronic diseases may often be traced back to the period of vaccination in such a manner as to show that the virus was communicated in that way.-British Journal of Homeopathy. No. 29. DR. TURNBULL, Cheltenham, 1870. He was sure that there was not a single medical man who would not alter his views respecting vaccination, if he studied the subject for thirty-six hours. He had often stated that vaccination was physiologically wrong, and there was not a doctor living who could prove the reverse. He had seen healthy children die rotten, from the effects of vaccination ; and although the doctors as a body, were opposed to him, yet he was glad to say that several medical men in Cheltenham had avowed their belief that several children in that town had been destroyed by vaccination. 28 ENOCH ROBINSON, M.R.C.S., late Medical Officer of Health for Dukinfield. Before the child is three months old, it meets with another in fluence that is calculated to strengthen any infective process which may be already at work in the system, and originate such a process in a child otherwise healthy and vigorous. The most powerful in fective substances are the various forms of purulent matter (a low condition of living animal matter, and essentially a phase of disease). One of these purulent forms of matter is the fluid of the vaccine vesicle. When inserted and absorbed into the living blood by an unnatural method, it exerts an influence of an infective character, opposed to the healthy vital power, and weakening to the extent of its influence the natural vigour of the body. That the natural vital powers are too strong for it in many cases, is recognised in the supposed necessity for re-vaccination. But in ascertaining the causes of the high rate of infant mortality, the degrading influence of vaccine matter must be considered. From Letter to the Local Board of Health on the Causes of High Infant Mortality in Dukinfield. DR. HEIM, Public Vaccinator, Wurtemburg, Says:That the most expert diagnostician will not always be able to detect dyscrasy in children of the vaccination age, and that he himself has transplanted syphilis from a child which seemed to him perfectly healthy.- From Horrors of Vaccination. P. 26. DR. BAKEWELL, M.D., M.R.C.S., Vaccinator-General of Trinidad, 1871. During the 21 years in which I have been in the habit of vaccina ting, I have seen very few cases in which any skin disease followed the operation so soon after as to be fairly attributable to it. Never theless. I feel bound to say that the amount of testimony I have heard against it from mothers and the number of cases of skin eruptions, especially, which they have declared to have followed vaccination in children previously free from anything of the kind - led me to infer either that some vaccinators have been very careless as to the sources of their lymph, or that certain constitutional diseases may be conveyed by vaccination. Since I have been in Trinidad and particularly since I have been Vaccinator-General-my attention has been much directed to the subject of leprosy, and its possible propagation by vaccination. It is a strange but undoubted fact, that leprosy is greatly increasing in this island ; that it is attacking the children of most respectable parents, who want nothing in the way of diet, &c. And, moreover, 29 it is attacking the children of Europeans, where there can be no possibility of hereditary taint. Now, it is worthy of remark, that in this island vaccination has of late years been compulsory; and that a large portion of the younger people were actually vaccinated during an epidemic of smallpox a few years ago. The general opinion among medical men is, that it is quite possible that leprosy may be propagated in this manner. It is curious, too, that in those islands where vaccination is not much used, there is very much less leprosy in proportion than here. SIR WILLIAM GULL, BART., M.D. In the Commons Committee of 1871, was asked (Q.4,869), "Have you known erysipelas to occur after re-vaccination? Have you seen death resulting from it?" DR. GULL replied: "I have not seen death resulting from it, but I know that it has occurred.” -Minutes of Evidence. P. 277. PENNSYLVANIA MEDICAL JOURNAL, Sep. 1871. American mothers at last are no more free from the plague of " vaccination than are British parents. What a prospect for humanity is this propagation of loathsome, contagious diseases ! National virusation by a staff of State officers to preserve the public health. All the vaccine virus now sold in Alaska-street, Philadelphia, is obtained from children suffering under the influence of scrofula, syphilis, or some kindred pestilence. The vaccine station is neither more nor less than a cesspool of germinal horrors. DR. COLLINS, M.D., L.R.C.P. Ed., M.R.C.S. There is no certainty in the action of the vaccine virus upon the constitution, it often imparts, or calls into activity, diseases that otherwise would have remained dormant, by debilitating the system and weakening the powers of vitality. 1871. THOMAS SKINNER, M.D., L.R.C.S., Liverpool, 1872. That there are many who die of vaccination I have no doubt whatever ; that they are maimed for life I have no doubt ; and that other forms of disease are rendered active by it every physician in family practice knows to be an almost every day oc currence. I saw a case the other day where the little patient has never slept for three weeks, or very little, and it cannot be touched without screaming. It is much emaciated, and otherwise very ill. All this has arisen and dates from the day of its vaccination. 30 JOSEF HAMERNIK, M.D., Professor of the University of Prague, Bohemia. Some years since, some terrible cases came to light, which were falsely registered as an epidemic, and which were caused by one vaccinator infecting a whole district with syphilis by vaccination. In the begining of this year a similar misfortune occurred in the neighbourhood of Melnik, when a number of children in several districts got syphilis by vaccination, and several died of it. Such epidemics probably occur more frequently than they are described as doing. In the earlier times of the practice of vaccina tion, no one dared to write anything against it, and thus no means existed of obtaining a correct knowledge of conditions like these. One would naturally suppose that a single case of the transmission of syphilis by vaccination, incontestably proved, would result in the immediate abandonment of the practice of vaccination, in the instant withdrawal of the Government grant for its support, and in advising the people as to the dangers of vaccination, and showing the im possibility of any but misguided or self-interested physicians advo cating its continuance.-77e History of smallpox and Vaccination. Prague, 1872. DR. J. EMERY CODERRE, Professor of Materia Medica, University, Montreal, Canada. Vaccination has made victims among us; some have contracted smallpox in consequence of the inoculation of the vaccine; others have been attacked with gangrenous ulcers, syphilitic sores, &c., resulting from the introduction of this virus into the constitution. From a Paper read before the Medical Society, Montreal, January 31st, 1872. MR. F. T. PORTER, M.R.C.S. With reference to revaccination, I have no faith in it. Not one of the 36 attendants at the South Dublin Union sheds has taken smallpox. Only 7 of the number were revaccinated, and as the remaining 29 enjoyed the same immunity, wherein is the necessity of the operation? I have known gouty inflammation, abscess of the breast, (angio-cucitis), &c., to result from the operation. I cannot in the face of such facts approve of it. Moreover, the sense of the profession is against it.-Medical Press and Circular, March 27th, 1872. 31 Dr. STARTIN. Believed in 30 years he had seen about thirty cases of syphilis communicated by vaccination. He had seen hundreds of cases of spurious vaccination, where contagious porrigo had been inoculated. He had seen scabies vaccinated on more than one occasion. When DR. SINON sent out his circular, in 1856, he (DR. STARTIN) collected several cases, giving the names and addresses of the patients, but no notice had been taken of them. They were undoubtedly cases where the children had been perfectly healthy, as well as their parents and nurses.-Discussion at the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society, June, 1872. WILLIAM HITCHMAN, M.D., D.C.L. I have been acquainted with the morbid effects of vaccination for nearly 40 years, and have witnessed crowds of cases, both in hospitals and private practice, analogous to the Guy's Hospital model ; but lest my testimony may not be deemed sufficiently impartial or unbiassed, I shall quote from the records of the smallpox Hospital, to prove that pure lymph, even in the hands of MR. MARSON himself, is occasionally attended with very impure consequences. M. A. W., aged 4, a fine child, was vaccinated by MR. MARSON in five places on the left arm, the poor child at the time being in perfect health, on the 19th May. The arms soon became severely inflamed, and spots of purpura appeared on the face. The vesicles on the eighth day appeared dark and filled with blood, and numerous effusions were dispersed over the entire body. The areola assumed a mahogany appearance. In fact, the vaccine vesicles were jet black with fearful blotches worse, I think, than the eruption of smallpox itself dispersed (as I have said) over the whole body of this unhappy child thus "protected” by a paternal Government from disease; more especially involving the face, neck, and arms, and over the skin, together with bleeding from the left ear and nostril. Enough, and to spare, of these morbid phenomena now propagated by Acts of Parliament.-The Anti-Vaccinator, Oct. 7th, 1871. As for the children recently vaccinated in Liverpool, I may say, from my own private observation, without reference to the many 11:01sands / have seen at the hospital for skin diseases, that the health of hundreds has been thereby permanently affect fected with intractable forms of cutaneous eruption : emphatically have I seen strumous ulcers rapidly developed, acute ophthalmia, chronic en largements of the cervical glands, diseases of the scalp, purulent discharges, foetid abscesses, and gangrenous inflammation of parts, followed by sloughing, while the throat, especially, of many such miserable sufferers according to Act of Parliament, together with 32 the palate, uvula, and tonsils, are periodically covered with dark livid incrustations, more difficult to heal than those of smallpox itself, inasmuch as they owe their disgusting origin to the foul exudations of that indefinite, nameless, hideous thing now in course of active propagation throughout the land, yclept vaccino-syphilis. -From 77e Anti-Vaccinator, Dec. 16th, 1872. DR. HENRY A. MARTIN, Boston, U.S.A. The reason why, in February, 1873, I abruptly ceased to propagate and collect humanized virus was, because in one week of that month I had five cases of erysipelas. They were all in children vaccinated on one arm with the institution "stock" and on the other with cowpox; and in every instance the disease appeared on the humanized side. I had previously had four precisely similar cases scattered over the preceding two and a half years, and contemplated an eventual abandonment of the old stock ; but this epidemic determined me at once to discontinue vaccination with humanized virus. Unfortunate Results of Vaccination. MEDICAL TIMES & GAZETTE, February Ist, 1873. The important subject of vaccinal syphilis came again before the Medico-Chirurgical Society on Tuesday evening, when a paper was read by Mr. HUTCHINSON, detailing two new cases. He also drew some general deductions from the facts as already ascertained, which, together with others elicited in the course of the discussion that followed, constitute the most important practical suggestions yet made with regard to this most unsatisfactory subject. That syphilis could be communicated by vaccination was, though admitted abroad, long disputed in this country. Since the publi cation of MR. HUTCHINSON'S paper, and a communication by M THOMAS SMITH to the Clinical Society, where the patient was exhibited, it can no longer be so. We have now emerged from the region of doubt, to one of belief in the possibility of such an un toward occurrence; and, in accordance with the practical turn which most professional discussions sooner or later take in this country, we have promptly begun to seek a remedy for the possible evil. Heretofore, as we have said, it has not been admitted that, if due care be taken, syphilitic infection by vaccination is possible. Especially has this been urged by the Crown officers when asked to encourage heifer vaccination. The facts now before the public will tend to rouse them, if they have not been roused already, from the false security into which they have been lulled. And, as was stated at the meeting, it is plain that our compulsory vaccination laws cannot be maintained unmodified. 33 EDWIN HEARN, M.B., F.R.C.S., Southampton. I have always contended that compulsory stational vaccination necessarily enforced the obtaining of lymph from uncertain sources, possibly more than ninety in a hundred vaccinated at stations being strangers, and their constitutions absolutely unknown Hence the vaccine lymph, taken after the most superficial inspection such as I have personally witnessed- must prove a fertile source of blood diseases, in support of which I can relate a striking instance within my own experience. A number of children were vaccinated with lymph supplied from a vaccination station. No cowpox resulted ; but in every case a troublesome bullous eruption, which only yielded to specific treatment after many weeks. In no instance have I traced a like disaster where the lymph has been taken from home vaccinations, the constitution of the vaccinated being almost invariably known to the family medical attendant.-The Anti Vaccinator, Feb. 3rd, 1873. PROF. A. TROUSSEAU, M.D., late Physician to the Hotel Dieu, Paris. The transmission of syphilis by vaccination appears now to be an established fact. To the examples, which, since the beginning of this century, have been reported, and of which the number is singularly augmented of late years, in France as well as abroad, I could add that which has come to our notice in our hospital. A young woman of eighteen came to be treated for an affection of the uterus. As smallpox was present I advised her to be vaccinated. The vaccine was taken from a child perfectly healthy in appearance, and which also furnished vaccine for four other children. With the children a legitimate vaccination was produced, and, during the 5, 10, 15, and 20 days respectively they remained in the hospital, nothing unusual was observed, but unfortunately, we lost sight of them. With the young woman, the day after inoculation the puncture became swollen, surrounded by inflamed areola, and, with sharp irritation of the skin. Four or five days after all traces had disappeared. At this period she left the hospital-to return in 15 days to have the uterine complaint treated. On her return she remarked that since quitting the hospital the inoculations on her left arm had taken .... we recognised ecthymous pustules. On her second return, a fortnight later, her condition left no doubt of a serious syphilitic infection, of which the origin was incontestably in the vaccinal punctures. If there are still some doctors who doubt the possibility of the transmission of syphilis by vaccination, the greater number have 34 succumbed to the evidence .... amongst these latter, some say it may be conveyed by the vaccine virus, whilst others consider it can only be done by blood being taken with the lymph .... Like M. VIENNOIS, I am of opinion it is important never to take vaccine from a child before the age at which hereditary syphilis usually manifests itself, that is, before the age of four or five monts, for such syphilis, whether outwardly apparent or not, can be transmitted..... The assertion that blood only con veys the disease is more hypothetical than demonstrated. It is difficult to understand that what the blood serum contains the vaccinal serum does not contain also; indeed, it is practically very difficult to take vaccine without any mixture of blood. From the Clinique Medicale. Vol. I., PP. 116-8. Paris, 1874. MR. HENRY MAY, M.R.C.S., Contributes an article on "Certificates of Death," from which we quote as follows, viz : In certificates given by us voluntarily, and to which the public have access, it is scarcely to be expected that a medical man will give opinions which may tell against or reflect upon himself in any way, or which are likely to cause annoyance or injury to the survivors. In such cases he will most likely tell the truth, but not the whole truth, and assign some prominent symptom of the disease 4s //:e cause of dea//. As instances of cases which may tell against the medical man , I will mention eyspelas / Acciaion, and puerperal fever. A death from the first cause occurred not long ago in my practice, and although I had not vaccinated the child, yet in wry desire to preserve vaccination from reproach, I omitted all mention of it from my certificate of death.-Birmingham Medical Review, January 1874. J. MACKENZIE, M.D., F.R.C.P., Edinburgh. I was vaccinated in 1806, yet had the smallpox in 1820. Last year, I got details of a vaccination massacre at Appleby, from the mistress of the family servant (a groom), who let me enter names, dates, &c., in my memorandum book. I communicated the informa tion to a friend, who, asking for more details, was told I must have imagined the story. Last week a note says they have, at last, excavated the truth, the mother praying for advice how to save her new baby from the fate of her other children. No wonder the Devil is called "the father of lies."-Eleanachi, Inverness, Nov. 3oth, 1874. 35 * DR. BRAY. Facts have accumulated to show that since vaccination had become the law of the land, consumption, which before was comparatively unknown in this country, had, as it were, become an inheritance in certain families. The pure lymph perhaps obtained from the greasy heels of a dismal old horse, was identical with the matter ejected from the lungs of a consumptive person. When a child was vaccinated it might happen no particularly observable disturbance took place. But there was an instrument used by medical men called a laryngo scope a sort of reflecting spy-glass, by which the bronchial tubes could be examined. When the vaccinated child's respiratory organs were submitted to this introspection, the mucous membrane would almost invariably be found studded with innumerable atomic pustules-the first garnered fruits of the process, and the damning evidence of what might be expected to follow in its train. Vaccina tion was applied to the arm, but the poison diffused itself rapidly into the lungs, the blood, the stomach, and even the brain. A child, "whom nobody owned," was killed in the streets of Paris, and given over to the medical men for anatomical purposes. In the breathing tubes, thorax, and stomach, were found upwards of 15,000 distinct ulcerations. The matter was scooped out, and a living child vaccinated with it! It produced all the symptoms of the true lymph." Like produced like. The matter of diseased lungs would produce in another subject, lung disease. -Extract from Speech, Market Rasen, in C.V.L. Circular, 1876. PROFESSOR ROBERT A. GUNN, M.D., New York, 1877. Even if there was any evidence to prove that vaccination was a prophylactic against smallpox, the appalling evils that have been and are still produced by it are sufficient to condemn the practice as a crime. Every physician of experience has met with numerous cases of cutaneous eruptions, erysipelas, and syphilis, which were directly traceable to vaccination, and if these could all be collected and pre sented in one report, they would form a more terrible picture than the worst that has ever been drawn to portray the horrors of smallpox .-Vaccination, its Fallacies and Evils, P. 13. BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL, 1877. In addition to the fact that people are ill after vaccination, it is important to remember that people die after the operation, if not from the disease itself, at least from its sequelæ, notably erysipelas. 36 ROBERT LIVEING, M.D., F.R.C.P., A.M., Physician to the Skin Department, Middlesex Hospital, Vaccination frequently produces an attack of eczema, simply by setting up local irritation.-7 reatment of Skin Diseases. P. 7, 1877. It often happens that vaccination is attended with more or less irritation or inflammation of the skin of the arm, in some cases to subacute eczema. P. 90. CHARLES T. PEARCE, M.R.C.S. Let me now direct your attention to the sad increase of infantile crysipelas concurrently with the increased number of infantile vaccinations. Taking the five years 1860-4, and contrasting them with five more recent years 1870-4, we find the following figures : DEATHS FROM ERYSIPELAS. Under Under Periods of 5 years. I year old 5 years old All ages. ist period 1860-1-2-3-4 2,698 3,280 8.754 2nd period 1870-1-2-3- 4 3 ,550 4,021 11,600 Thus the lamentable fact is apparent, that of the deaths from Erysipelas at all ages, nearly one-third occurred in the first year of life-the year of vaccination-while the total number was greatly in excess of that which can be accounted for by increase of population. Erysipelas is now an infantile disease, and it is to be noted that erysipelatous symptoms are the recognised effects of proper vaccina tion. The connection, therefore, between vaccination and erysipelas is established. The annexed table shows the increase from one period of five years to the other of the three diseases referred to : DEATHS FROM ERYSIPELAS DEATHS FROM ERYSIPELAS DEATHS FROM SYPHILIS Five years DEATHS FROM smallFOX Under Under All ages. Under I year 5 years I yerur Ist period, 1860-1-2-3-4 19,346 2,698 3,280 8,754 4,504 6,425 2nd period, 1870-1-2-3-4 49,366 3,550 4,021 11,600 7,009 9,271 Beyond all this sad increase of suffering and mortality, there is another serious aspect of the question the increasing resistance of the people to a law they consider oppressive, because they are unconvinced of the efficacy of the process it enforces, while of its accompanying dangers they have, as they believe, sufficient evidence. -Letter to RIGHT HON. G. SCLATER-BOOTH. M.P. Feb. 20th, 1877. 37 MR. BRUDENELL CARTER, F.R.C.S., L.S.A., Ophthalmic Surgeon to St. George's Hospital. I think that syphilitic contamination by vaccine lymph is by no means an unusual occurence, and that it is very generally over looked because people do not know either when or where to look for it. I think that a large proportion of the cases of apparently inherited syphilis are in reality vaccinal; and that the syphilis in these cases does not show itself until the age of from eight to ten years, by which time the relation between cause and effect is apt to be lost sight of Medical Examiner, May 24th, 1877. MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the London Hospital, 1877. There can be no doubt that the danger of transmitting syphilis by vaccination, is a real and a very important one. Amongst the best means by which we may hope to prevent the OC currence of these lamentable accidents (referring to a series of cases of vaccinal syphilisation) in the future, I would put, as the foremost, the diffusion of the knowledge amongst the profession that such accidents are possible. Until my original papers were published almost the whole British profession was incredulous on this point : and in spite of the publicity which was then given to the facts there still remain, I believe, some who are either uninformed or unconvinced. Illustrations of Clinical Surgery-Vaccination Syphilis, 1877. • C. SPINZIG, M.D., St. Louis. Vaccination is tantamount to inoculation and constitutes septic poisoning a criminal offence to human health and life and is statistically proved to afford no protective or mitigating power over smallpox, and scientifically, in the nature of the case, it cannot possess any.-Variola: its Causes, Nature, &C., 1878. J. GARTH WILKINSON, M.R.C.S., Edin., 1878. At first sight, especially to confirmed vaccinators, nothing seems wilder, or more wide of the mark, than the assertion, frequently made, that vaccination causes a large and ever-enlarging disease-rate and death-rate by maladies quite different from the vaccine disease. This is particularly the case, because the effects of vaccination are scarcely ever kept in view by the practitioner for more than a few weeks from the operation. After such a date he honestly, but 38 ignorantly, scouts the suggestion from parents and non-professionals that such and such results are due to his deed, and that the child has never been the same since that deed was done. It is not to be expected of him that he shall consent to trace effects years afterwards, and throughout life, to the same trifling puncture which he inflicted, like Emile Ollivier's first prick of war, with a light heart." Hundreds of cases are recorded in which the deaths of infants who were healthy up to the hour of vaccination followed, after greater or lesser periods of suffering, often horrible suffering, the insertion of vaccine; the suffering generally dating from the operation, and disease steadily advancing therefrom. The vacci nating doctors for the most part deny all connection between the vaccination and the death, and influence coroners' juries to pro nounce death from some other cause. The difficulty is that the circumstantial witnesses of the death are only mother's, fallers, and relations, and their testimony is of no weight in scientific scales. The very reason that they love makes them foolish in comparison to the impartial doctor-if only he were impartial.-Vaccination 7racts. No. 13. DR. HOEBER, Hamburg. Vaccination is extremely prone to develop disease, being an attack upon the system in early childhood, when owing to teething, there is already a great predisposition towards disease. Also vaccination involves a penetrant diseasing of the whole body. This lowers all the natural powers of resistance in the child, and as a consequence, illnesses of various kinds, scrofulous, bronchial, &c., frequently follow.-Der Praktische Arst, January, 1878. CONSTANTINE HERING, M.D., Philadelphia. I have more than once plainly seen, and often heard of, cases where children remained ailing from the time of vaccination, who were previously in robust health. If this occurred with but one tenth the number of cases, or even less, it were sufficient to call up the wish for a better preventive.-Fron Letter dedicated to the Homeopathic Practitioners of Great Britain, Philadelphia, Aug., 1878. * PROFESSOR GERMANN, M.D., of the University of Leipsic. Above all, the dire fatality which lately occurred at Lebus, a suburb of Frankfort-on-the-Oder, would alone warrant the abolition of the vaccination laws. Eighteen school girls, averaging 12 years 39 of age, were re-vaccinated, and thereby syphilised, and some of them died.... Yet the lymph, the syphilitic lymph, used in this case was obtained from the Official Royal Establishment for the new regenerated" or "animalized" vaccine lymph so warmly recommended for the re-vaccination of schools.-Petition to German Diet, 1878. Dr. SAMUEL EADON, M.A., Gloucester, 1879. The lymph, obtained from the ulcers of children, by means of arm-to-arm vaccination, conveying, in addition to the hereditary taints of animals (as those of the rinderpest, cattle-plague, steppe murrain, &c.), the sins of the fathers to the third and fourth genera tion, is imported into the young organism besides. Is there any wonder, with such abominable fouling of the human body, that consumption, scrofula, syphilis, cancer, and the whole vile train of skin diseases, should start up, and rage on with maddening intensity, making life miserable, swelling, to a dreadful extent, the bills of mortality, and curtailing, by many years, the length of human life? DR. NIEMEYER, of Tübingen, 1879 It cannot be denied that vaccination sometimes endangers life, and in other cases leaves permanent impairment of health, especially cutaneous diseases and other scrofulous affections, due to the debilitating influence of the fever accompanying the vaccinia. -Text Book of Medicine. 1879. ALEXANDER WILDER, M.D., Professor of Physiology, New York, 1879. No man has the right to disease another on any pretext. If vaccination was prophylactic against smallpox, its infliction would nevertheless be wrong and without justification. It is not thus prophylactic, and therefore ought to be resisted. The medical man who vaccinates, or advocates vaccination, does it in the very face of science, and as an empiric solely. Vaccination tends directly to impair the integrity of the body. It is certainly the profaning of everything sacred in a person. When this impairment has occurred, the person will always be more liable than ever to sickness and epidemics. Hence a vaccinated people will always be a sickly people, shorter lived, and degenerate. 40 J. R. NEWTON, M.D., Boston, U.S.A., 1879. Vaccination is a practice that causes a vast amount of disease and suffering. Its effects are far more terrible than the disease it is designed to prevent. No matter how pure the vaccine matter may appear to be, virus is left in the system, which will, sooner or later, be developed in scrofula or some other filthy disease. Were I to relate a few of the cases that have fallen under my observation of persons injured by this practice, it would fill the mind with horror. W. BRUCE CLARKE, M.B., F.R.C.S., Records a case of "Pyæmia after vaccination-Death,” in a child at 14 weeks. Nothing unusual was noticed until after the 8th day; an abscess formed in the left axilla, and others on right fore arm, right thigh, and left wrist. The temperature rose to 1034, and the child died exhausted on the igth day after the vaccination. -S7. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, 1879. Vol. xv. WILLIAM FORBES LAURIE, M.D., Edin., St. Saviour's Cancer Hospital, Regent's Park. Being anxious not to do mischief to my fellow-creatures, and being, as regards my own family, liable to fine or imprisonment under the Compulsory Vaccination Act, I lately wrote to some M.P.'s on the subject. I asked them to come here and see for themselves the dismal results of vaccination in cases of paralysis, blindness of both eyes, hip-joint disease, consumption, and frightful forms of skin disease. Though I received replies they have not yet inspected the cases. I can add my testimony to that of DR. ANGE, who was 17 years engaged in the Isle of Wight in curing cancer, to the great increase of cancer all over the kingdom. This is attri buted by some medical men to the large amount of syphilitic disease with which vaccine lymph is impregnated ; by others to the direct impregnation of healthy persons with lymph imbued with scrofulous and cancerous matter. In this way they account for the large increase of cancer in all parts of the body, throughout the kingdom generally.-Letter to Mrs. HUME ROTHERY, June 3rd, 1879. DR. CHARLES CAMERON, M.P. Referring to the precautions taken at the National Vaccine Establishment to secure purity of lymph, contended that they were at best based upon a very questionable theory, and were altogether inadequate to prevent the collection of lymph from infants in whom disease could only be detected on a close and minute examination, 41 such as those who had proved the source of so much mischief in MR. HUTCHINSON'S and some of M. DEPAUL'S cases. * * * M. DEPAUL, the chief of the Vaccination Service of the French Academy of Medicine, became alive to the danger of the spread of syphilitic infection through vaccination. In a paper which M. DEPAUL published in 1867, which embraced the record of little over a year's French experience, there were enumerated half-a-dozen more or less extensive outbreaks of vaccinal syphilis, in the course of which upwards of 160 children had been infected, and several had lost their lives. It was not until 1871 that a case of wholesale syphilitic invaccination, brought before the Royal Medical and Surgical Society by MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, incontestibly proved to the medical profession in this country that the theory on which they had so long relied was unsound.-Address at the Calf Lymph Medical Conference, Dec., 1879. MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, F.RC S., &c. At the ordinary meeting of the Royal Medico-chirurgical Society, held on the 9th December, 1879, MR. HUTCHINSON described a case of Vaccinia Gangrenosa, and exhibited the body of the infant, who had been vaccinated three months before death, from the arm of a healthy child. Three other children vaccinated at the same time, from the same source, took no hurt. On the eighth day after vaccination, a papular and vesicular rash appeared over the truink. which rapidly assumed a sloughing character. The eruption was at first taken for smallpox, and when death took place, a fortnight later, an inquest was held on the case, for it was then thought to be syphilis. But MR. HUTCHINSON pointed out that its evolution as well as its character were not those of syphilitic infection, and he considered it to be a true case of vaccinia passing on to a gangrenous condition-a condition he had sometimes observed to take place in varicella. The vaccine marks on the arm were natural.-The Lancet, December 13th, 1879, P. 873. MR. SIMON, F.R.C.S. When a given (animal) body is possessed by one of them, (contagious diseases) no product of that body can be warranted as safe not to convey the infection. Presumption against every part and product of the diseased body is by every one readily admitted, where there are vehement general symptoms of disease ; but it is important to know that not only in such febrile states, but even in states of chronic dyscrasy, and even at times when the dyscrasy may be giving no outward sign, the infected body may be variously infective. Thus the vaccine lymph of the syphilitic may possibly 42 contain the syphilitic contagion in full vigour, even at moments when the patient who thus shows himself infective, has not on his own person any outward activity of syphilis. Similarly in regard to tubercular disease. British Medical Fournal, Dec. 13th, 1879. DR. C. SPINZIG, St. Louis, U.S. 1880. JENNER had already observed phlegmonous erysipelas to follow vaccination. And in the Foundling Hospital at Petersburg, of 5,000 vaccinated infants, 57 took erysipelas in consequence of vaccination and died. Also in Boston, erysipelas has been seen to follow upon vaccination; and on various occasions vaccination has had to be suspended. Dr. A. G. SPRINGSTEEN, Cleveland, Ohio. One pernicious practice, is that of vaccinating children. I am as afraid of the virus as I am of the smallpox. Not only scrofula, but other impurities have been conveyed to the blood of healthy persons by means of vaccination. No one, who has given the subject the least consideration, doubts that impurities may be conveyed in this manner.- New York Medical Tribune, January, 1880. Mr. J. H. BOYLE, M.B., C.M., L.M., Records a case of erysipelas, followed by large ulcerated, unhealthy sores in a previously healthy child, at six months, following vaccination with calf lymph.-Lancet, April 3rd, 1880. SIR THOMAS WATSON, BART., M.D., F.R.S., D.C.L. There has fallen an ugly blot. It is too certain that one objection really formidable does exist that the operation may, in some few instances, impart to the subject of it the poison of a hateful and destructive disease (syphilis), peculiar to the human species, and the fruit and Nemesis of its vices. On this distasteful subject I shall simply appeal to the printed testimony of MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON.... Such facts as he has demonstrated, con stitute a rational excuse for objecting to compulsory vaccination / can readily sympathise with, and even applaud a father who, with the presumed dread or misgiving in his mind, is willing to submit to multiplied judicial penalties, rather than expose his child to the risk of an affection so ghastly.-Nineteenth century, June, 1880. 43 DR. EDWARD HAUGHTON. I have now under treatment a girl who has an eruption, not un like smallpox, on her shoulders, arins, and face, and which causes her intolerable itching. She was vaccinated 18 years ago, and has an eruption every summer of a similar kind to that which followed shortly after having been vaccinated. At these times she is greatly debilitated and looks thoroughly out of health. I have also just given up attending a gentleman who, having suffered from chronic eczema on the arms and legs, was recommended to try the experiment recorded in DR. JOSEPH KIDD's book on Therapeutics (page 98), and get vaccinated with a view to cure. The result was a great in crease of the disease, which almost drove him to despair. He is now nearly well. I have also seen an eruption, almost indistinguishable from smallpox. coming out on a patient round the site of the vaccine vesicle in a ring of several inches circumference. In this case no further harm resulted, but I am inclined to think that those cases which are said "not to take are those in which the vital organs are most likely to be injuriously affected.-Letter 1. The British Medical Fournal, Ang. 18th, 1880. T. L. NICHOLS, M.D., F.as. Syphilis, scrofula, and probably every kind of blood poison can be taken by Vaccination, which, so far from being a protection against smallpox, seems to have been one of the chief causes of the late epidemics. It is never safe to take matter from another body into our own: we risk taking all its diseases. There is no doubt thousands have been mortally poisoned by Vaccination.-Esoteric Anthropology. P. 186. WILLIAM HYCHEMAN, M.D., of New York, 1880, Writing after 40 years practice as a physician, says :-Now vaccination by calf-pox, cowpox, or humanized pox, whatever may be the multiplicity of lymphs, (and "pure vaccine" is only a rhetorical euphemism for horse-grease) is an eruptive disease, setting in with febrile symptoms, followed by papule, vesicle, and pustule, in about eight days. And what else is smallpox? I have recently dissected more than a dozen children, whose deaths were caused by vaccina tion, and no smallpox, however black, could have left more hideous traces of its malignant sores, foul sloughing, hearts empty or con gested with clots, than did some of these examples of State physic, which killed with rotten patches of lungs, spleen, mesenteric glands, kidneys, and intestines. Shame! Indeed, scarcely a day clapses 44 but I am called upon to witness the sufferings of vaccinated children, in form of cerebral and gastric complications, persistent vomiting, bronchitis, diarrhoea, with pustules in the mouth and throat (pharynx), on the eyelids, and ulceration of the cornea, which remains opaque, and may lead to blindness. Dr. BREWER, M.P. In various classes, especially in large towns, not only was there doubt whether vaccination was effectual as a prevention, but there was an exceedingly great fear that diseases even more to be dreaded than smallpox itself were conveyed by vaccine matter. - House of Commons. PROFESSOR BOCK, M.D., of Leipsic, Said :-I have, in a forty years practice, seen far more evil than good from vaccination, and therefore vaccinated my own children only in their third and fourth years, when they were hearty and strong. But I would never have vaccinated them but for an indirect compulsion. MR. LANE, F.R.C.S. It is clearly proved that syphilitic blood may convey syphilis, but it is not yet proved that vaccination lymph from a syphilitic child, even though unmixed with blood, will not do so, and it would, there fore be the height of imprudence to act on any such belief.-Lane's Lectures on Syphilis, 1881. DR. RICHARD NEALE, of 60, Boundary Road, St. John's Wood. During the last few months, I have vaccinated between three and four hundred patients, and of these six or seven have gone off into dead faints, in one attended with vomiting, but in no instance followed by convulsions.-British Medical Journal, 25th June, 1881. Dr. DESJARDINS, Nice, 1881. In a letter to the editor of the Akhbar, gives a complete con firmation of the syphilisation of the fifty-eight French soldiers in Algeria, on Dec. 30 last, the particulars of which we have already set before our readers. The most cautious silence, we are informed, 45 is preserved by the military authorities; and not without reason, if vaccination is to retain its hold on popular credulity. The writer demands that the recruits be dismissed from a service to which they will be a useless appendage, and proposes to solace them with pensions for injuries which the Government cannot redress. The letter concludes with a recommendation that calf-lymph be adopted in future. It is proclaimed, apparently by an inversion of the famous line, "A rose by any other name would smell as sweet," that numerous re-vaccinations have lately been made in the garrisons of Paris and Vincennes with lymph from the calf."- ournal d'Hygiene, Aug. 25th, 1881. MEDICAL TIMES & GAZETTE, September 3rd, 1881. M. TOUSSAINT vaccinated a cow in an advanced stage of tuber culosis with lymph absolutely pure. The vesicles progressed normally, and with the lymph obtained from them he vaccinated different animals, all of whom subsequently became tuberculous. The significance of these experiments can scarcely be over-rated, for though a judicious vaccinator would not use lymph taken from a child who exhibited already evidence of the disease, the chances of cows in whom spontaneous vaccinia may appear, and whose lymph would at the present time be eagerly sought after, being, like so many of their species, tuberculous, would be great, and it would seem in consequence that the dangers of animal vaccination may be greater than those of human, which are supposed to be avoided by having recourse to the cow. W. J. COLLINS, B.Sc., M.B., B.S., M.R.C.S. In 1805 an anti-vaccinator, DR MOSELEY, discovered that syphilis was communicable by vaccination ; it was not till 70 years later that the majority of the profession were convinced of the fact. It would be tedious to quote the list of eminent men who have averred their belief in this "ghastly risk, but it includes SIR THOMAS WATSON, PROFESSOR RICORD, DR. TROUSSEAU, MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, MR. SIMON, DR BALLARD, MR. LANE, and a host of other dis tinguished syphilographers. DR. LANCEREAUX published a list of 258 authenticated cases of vaccino-syphilis, and more than 700 instances of the kind are now on record. MR. BRUDENELL CARTER believes that "a large proportion of cases of apparently inherited syphilis are in reality vaccinal," and this belief is shared by many. In 1877 MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON published full and detailed accounts of 24 persons who had been syphilised by vacci nation, and he adds that there can be no doubt that the danger of transmitting syphilis is a real and a very important one." Pathology 46 has taught us long since that syphilis may be conveyed by infected blood, or the secretions which are its offspring. Statistics complete the evidence by showing that the deaths from infantile syphilis per million births were, under enforced vaccination (1867-78), 1,738, as compared with 564 under voluntary vaccination (1847-53). Next as to erysipelas. Many instances are on record in which erysipelas has supervened from one or two weeks after vaccination : perhaps the most notable of these is a little outbreak which occurred at Gainsborough in 1876, which was officially investigated by DR. NETTEN RADCLIFFE. Sixteen children were vaccinated with Government lymph by the public vaccinator; in II erysipelas followed, and six died of it. In 1877 MR. ERNEST HART, editor of the British Medical ournal, wrote, "It is important to remember that people die after vaccination, if not from the disease itself, at least from its sequela, notably erysipelas." DR. MARTIN writes of erysipelas, " that miserable complication, the pest of vaccinators." From 1865 to 1871, 96 deaths were recorded as due to "erysipelas after vaccination;" and it is probable more would be recorded were not silence on this subject counselled by medical officers of health in order to preserve vaccination from reproach." The occurrence of skin diseases after and from vaccination has been admitted, and cases in illustration have been published by HEBRA, LIVEING, HUTCHINSON, NIEMEYER, CEELY, and many others. Before the Vaccination Act, 183 infants out of every million died from skin diseases before they attained one year of age. Since the Act has been rigidly enforced the figure has risen steadily to 343. One is told almost ad nauseam that the occurrence of erysipelas or skin disease after vaccination is purely accidental, is a matter of post hoc, not propter hoc, or that it was all the child's fault, or the result of the combination of some ill-understood meteorological conditions, in fact anything but vaccination. That was not JENNER'S opinion at all; he looked on accompanying erysipelas as the stamp of genuine cowpox, and on one occasion obtained his lymph from "an extensive inflammation of an erysipelatous kind appearing without any apparent cause on the upper part of the thigh of a sucking colt !" I think under these circumstances we can hardly pretend to look upon vaccination as quite so innocent of erysipelas as the hypothetical scratch of a pin so often alluded to, nor need we visit on the child's constitution the sins inherent in the vaccine virus. That pyæmia occasionally follows vaccination I suppose no one is prepared to deny. I have myself known two fatal cases of blood poisoning due directly to this cause; while statistics show that deaths from this cause per million births have increased from 155 before compulsory vaccination to 180 since. 47 That tubercle or scrofula can be engendered or intensified by vaccination is no new theory. DR. SQUIRRELL, an anti-vaccinator, suggested it 70 years ago, and now that a belief in the inoculability of tubercle is gaining ground, it will probably not be long before this danger is considered as real as that of vaccino-syphilis. PROFESSOR COHNHEIM declares that the test for tubercle is simply this, that the virus inoculated on a guinea pig will produce tubercle. Now, WILSON Fox has shown that vaccine lymph inoculated on a guinea pig does produce tuberculosis ; cryo, vaccine lymph is tubercle. Again, the equine analogue of scrofula is glanders, farcy, or grease, three varieties of the same thing, and this according to JENNER, was the source of the true and not the Spurious cowpox.” So that the Jennerian lymph, which is still in use, and has passed through countless constitutions, is surely not the last thing in the world to be suspected of disseminating scrofulous disease. As to figures to corroborate these statements, here they are. Deaths under one year per million births from : Scrofula. Nesenteric Vaccination voluntary, disease. 1847 to 1853 351 2,981 Vaccination obligatory, 1853 to 1867 611 3,371 Vaccination enforced, 1867 to 1878 4,373 These figures are taken from a Parliamentary return, No. 392, 1880.-St. Bartholomew's Hospital, Sep, toth, 1881. 908 MR. ERNEST HART, M.R.C.S. The PRESIDENT remarked that the medical profession had reasons for coming to the conclusion that, during the last thirteen years, their impressions as to the value of humanized lymph had undergone considerable change. - British Medical Journal, Sep. 24, 1881. Dr. W. B. CARPENTER, M.D. It is unfortunately too true that with the reduction of smallpox mortality (by vaccination), there has been an increase in the mortality from measles and scarlatina, exceeding that which increase of population would account for ; the number of deaths in England and Wales from the former of these diseases frequently exceeding 10,000 in the year; while the annual mortality from the latter averages nearly 20,000, sometimes exceeding 30,000.-Nineteent/ Century, Oct. 1881. P. 547. 48 DR. WALZ, City Councillor, Frankfort on the Oder. It is now no longer denied that syphilis lying latent in young children, cannot always be detected by the most careful doctor ; but we are told that the cases of vaccinal syphilis are very few, and the risk very slight. We reply, that in these days syphilis is, apparently, one of the commonest complaints, that lymph is probably exten sively impregnated with it ; that the transmission by vaccination is in all likelihood much more common than is generally imagined, and that the observed cases much more numerous than the acknow ledged ones. Are we not justified by the laws of analogy in main taining the possibility of the transmission in vaccination of other diseases, in addition to syphilis and scrofula ?-Discourse on the Qocasion of the Cologne Congress of Oct., 1881. DR. H. SCHOPPE, Bonn. Sometimes children with good constitutions pass through the vaccine fever harmless, but in others it is an excitant of maladies of lifelong duration Medical men, I am sorry to say, have no sound knowledge on these important matters, and are kept in ignorance through prejudice.-Fron Address delivered before the Cologne International Anti-Vaccination Congress, October, 1881. Dr. CHARLES PIGEON, Fourchambault, (Nievre) France. In an address delivered before the International Anti-Vaccination Congress at Cologne, Oct. Ioth, 1881, DR. PIGEON established the following propositions : Ist. That variola is not relatively a serious disorder, and that vaccination is no protection against it, but renders it more dangerous. 2nd. That vaccination exposes the vaccinated to syphilis. 3rd.—That vaccination exposes the vaccinated to several other diseases, and is the means of exciting sundry others, the major part of which are more dangerous than smallpox. 4th.—That vaccination is a powerful cause of the degeneration of mankind. DR. HUBERT BOENS, Charleroi, 1881. It is not difficult to prove that vaccination is an evil, per se, and the fruitful cause of disease and death to many thousands in all countries. Sometimes the evil is apparent, but often the seeds are sown in the system, and the diseases are not manifested for some 49 years. Vaccination undermines the constitution, and if re-vaccination now demanded by the medical profession be persisted in the entire community must become physically degenerate. In their mischievous effects, the vaccine lymphs are alike, whether obtained from children or from calves. The one is too often taken from the classes subject to syphilis and scrofula, the once-dreaded king's evil; the other is specially liable to convey lung complaint ; and the peculiar morbid phenomena excited in the vaccinated patients is the compound result of whatever disease exists in their constitution, and the special fermentation caused by the addition of the vaccine complaint. VERDE DE LISLE, ANCELON, CARNOT, and others, have statistically shown that universal vaccina tion bodes universal deterioration of the human species; that it augments the mortality of infancy and youth; that it has doubled the deaths in the military hospitals; increased the number and fatality of smallpox epidemics; and rendered its adherents specially subject to diseases of a typhoid character. In short, the more a nation is vaccinated, the more it will suffer from cach zymotic epidemic, and the more rapid will be its physical decline-From the closing address delivered before the 2nd International Anti- vaccination Congress at Cologne, Oct. 12th, 1881. DR. BRERETON, Sydney, New South Wales, 1881. In my experience, I have seen more evils result from vaccination than I ever saw from smallpox. I have seen direct fatal results from vaccination. I have seen chronic-incurably chronic disease the result of vaccination, and death after the lapse of many years ; and I have seen diseases of a destructive character introduced into the system through vaccination. smallpox has steadily increased and is increasing, as the practice of vaccination is more generally enforced.- Evidence given before the Cabinet and Legislatie at Sydney. From The Sydney Morning Herald, Oct. 25th, 1881. Dr. FORTESCUE, Sydney, New South Wales. There are cases in which children having some inherent delicacy of constitution, only wait for some depressing cause to develop symptoms of disease, and no doubt vaccination sometimes acts as the depressing cause, and the children are made ill in consequence of that depression, and indirectly by the process of Vaccination. -Sydney Morning Herald, Oct. 25th, 1881. 50 DR. E. M. RIPLEY, Physician and Surgeon, Unionville, Conn. U.S.A. Vaccination is a fraud and a crime, and I cannot conscientiously lend it my support for the sake of gain. I have positively refused to vaccinate for four years past, and the longer I live, the greater is iny detestation of it. It does not protect, and it does endanger, health and life. -Letter to A. E. GILES, ESQ. Barrister-at-Law, Hyde Park, Mass., U.S. Nov. 2nd, 1881. J. A. McMUNN, M.B., L.R.C.S., &c. Every newspaper is studded with advertisements inviting the public to purify and renovate their blood at a shilling a bottle, while Poor-law vaccinators are labouring industriously to vitiate and contaminate the same at the rate of two shillings per case. All who are vaccinated do not contract loathsome diseases, we are informed. All who enter the battlefield are not slain, but the liability and risk in both cases are essentially similar ; whoever escapes has reason to be thankful. In order to avert disease, decomposing animal matter is made to permeate the system. The result is what any rational being might anticipate. "As you sow, so must you reap." If you disseminate the germs of disease, you will in due season reap.-Belfast Telegraph, Nov. 9th, 1881. DR. LUDINGTON, New Britain, Conn. U.S. Gave an instance in which leprosy had been communicated to the patient by vaccination. He cited cases where the same person had smallpox repeatedly; and affirmed his conviction that if variola could not prevent its own recurrence, it was futile to seek such prevention by other disorders.-Meeting of Eclectic Medical Asso ciation, Nov. 15th, 1881. DR. PEASE, Thomaston, U.S. Said he had been employed in Government service in the army during the civil war. Part of his duty was to vaccinate. The soldiers would be drawn up in line and compelled to bare their arms for him to operate. Some of the sores thus produced were frightful. The arm would swell to inordinate dimensions, even endangering the life of many. Yet it kept off no pestilence; and he could declare from his own experience and observation that vaccination was the veriest humbug imaginable.-Eclectic Medical Association, Meeting, Nov. 15th, 1881. 51 Dr. FISK, of Guildford, U.S. Spoke of the liability to transmit other disorders with the vaccine virus. It was notorious, he said, that a large number of the animals slaughtered by butchers had diseased lungs and livers. The fact was carefully kept out of sight, but such is the case. Bovine virus taken from such animals would convey the other diseases with it. Scrofula and consumption are so propagated.- Eclectic Medical Association, New Haven, Conn., U.S., Nov. 15th, 1881. • Dr. S. B. MUNN, of Waterbury, Connecticut, U.S. Reviewed the history of vaccination, and combated the pretence that it would protect against smallpox. He declared that if a law should be passed to make medical men pecuniarily responsible for the ill effects, no physician would ever vaccinate. He showed what these effects were. Vaccine virus induces a ferment in the blood, with an active tendency towards the formation of pus; erysipelas was liable to intervene. As for protection, there was none whatever. JENNER himself, after several patients had taken smallpox, declared that cowpox virus was not a prophylactic against attack ; but that virus from the heels of a diseased horse was the only safeguard. -From Address delivered before Eclectic Medical Association, Nov. 15th, 1881. CONNECTICUT ECLECTIC MEDICAL ASSOCIATION. The Association adopted the following resolution by a unani mous vote : Resolved, that the Eclectic Medical Association of Connecticut hereby declares its convictions against the practice of Vaccination and all legislation making it compulsory; and asks the Legislatures of the several States to pass laws prohibiting San School Boards, and other local authorities, from making and enforcing regulations for that purpose.—Reported by PROF. ALEX. WILDER, M.D., for The Vaccination Inquirer and Health Review, Nov. 15th, 1881. TE T. H. HAYLE, M.B., Lond. I believe vaccination from human beings to be wrong. In this age, when the natural laws of health are totally disregarded by most people, and immorality so common, we can never be sure that the blood of a child is in a pure state. When great care is taken you 52 can generally discover syphilis, if present, but it is a totally different matter as regards scrofula. Very often scrofula lies dormant in the blood of the child until it grows up, when it breaks out with con sumption or some kindred disease. The handsomest and prettiest and healthiest-looking children are sometimes the most scrofulous. But it is said that scrofula in the blood does not cause bad results from vaccination, but for my part I would not like to be vaccinated from a person in consumption, and the poison in the blood is the same whether the consumption has broken out or not. And it stands to reason that scrofulous blood cannot generate such good vaccine matter as pure blood, therefore until the human race becomes perfectly healthy, I would do away with vaccination from human beings entirely, and use only pure calf lymph, drawn from healthy and cleanlily-kept calves, living as far as possible according to the laws of nature ; against such vaccination I think there can be no objection. But how is it that the bad effects of scrofula, following vaccination, have been overlooked? It may be explained in this way, and I think satisfactorily. Scrofula, even in those who have it in their blood from birth, very often does not show itself till nearly adult age; this, I believe, is admitted by all. If this is so, how can inoculated scrofula break out sooner? I should say it would take longer. Being vaccinated from a scrofulous child fully explains how one child in a healthy family may break out with scrofula or con sumption, although this child may have been under quite as favourable circumstances of health as the others. This being true, what has vaccination done? It has brought disease, sickness, sorrow, and death, into healthy and innocent families.-Rochdale Observer, Dec. 3rd, 1881. Dr. J. SUTHERLAND, Ashton New Road, Manchester. At the inquest held on the body of WILLIAM HENRY CARPENTER, who was vaccinated a month ago, said the deceased was brought to him on the 7th inst. There were five distinct vaccination inarks upon the arm. Erysipelas had then begun, and had extended to the body. He visited the child every day until death. He had made a post-mortem examination, and found the organs healthy, with the exception that there was congestion of the lung, which, he expected, followed the erysipelas. Vaccination was sometimes followed by breaking out." He saw nothing to lead him to think that vaccination had not been properly performed. He considered that as legislation made vaccination compulsory, some compensation should be made when there were results as in the present case. He did not belong to the anti-vaccination party. The jury returned a verdict to the effect that death resulted from erysipelas caused by vaccination. Manchester Guardian, Dec. 2oth, 1881. 53 THE STUDENTS JOURNAL & HOSPITAL GAZETTE, January 14th, 1882. Many deaths have undoubtedly resulted from vaccination, and an unknown number of children have had their constitutions cruelly injured through vaccination with lymph from a syphilitic child. T. MACKENZIE, M.D., F.R.C.P., Edin., January 26th, 1882. When I produce children of three different families, where scrofula was never heard of till they were vaccinated, but whose necks are now a sad sight to see. "Pooh! pooh! you got bad lymph for them, and must be more careful," is all the comfort I get. Dr. HUSBAND. It should be borne in mind that it cannot be shown that there is no risk of transmitting diseases from the calf to the infant. The very fact that vaccinia itself is so readily communicated, is a pre sumption that danger of this kind does exist—not probably greater than that of communicating disease from infant to infant, but, for anything we know, not less.-From 35th Annual Report of Scottish Board of Health. RICHARD STONEHAM, M.D., Surgeon, Philadelphia College. In the postscript of a letter which I wrote to one of the editors of our county paper some time ago, I observed that “Her Majesty the Queen had been vaccinated, and that time would tell whether it was a wise experiment." I now hear that her Majesty has severely suffered from an abscess of the arm, a form of disease often following vaccination; showing that royalty is not exempt from afflictions of the human body when physiological laws are violated. I have often seen abscesses, glandular swellings, and skin diseases, follow the vaccine operation.-From The Bridgwater Gasette. INDEX N.B. -Those marked with an asterisk treat of Animal (Cow, Horse, or Calf) Lymph, without reference to injuries from arm to arm Vaccination. 