Fifth Edition. Price Hundred, PHILOSOPHERS, PUBLICISTS, AND VACCINE PHYSICIANS. DR. JOHN HUNTER, the Celebrated Physiologist and Anatomist who was acquainted with JENNER. " introduction by inoculation of mineral or vegetable poisons into the blood is hazardous, and in certain quantities may be destructive. But the introduction of animal products from another living body, be it a man, a cow, or even an ass, is infinitely more pernicious, because allied to it in being vitalised.” 4. EDWARD JENNER. 5. the 26th of December, in the year 1799, DR.EDWARD JENNER, of Berkeley, Gloucestershire (who subsequently received or was awarded £30,000 for his discovery), made the following statement :— “There is a disease to which the horse, from his state of domestication, is frequently subject ; the fanners have termed it ‘the Grease? It is an inflammation and swelling of the heel, from which issues matter, possessing properties of a very peculiar nature, which seems capable of generating a disease in the human body which bears so strong a resemblance to the smallpox, that I think it highly probable it may be the source of that illness. Some particles of this infectious matter adhering to human fingers, the disease is communicated to cows, and from cows to dairy-maids, and it then obtains the name of cow pox. The animals themselves become seriously indisposed, and the secretion of milk is very much lessened. But on the hands of the domestic servants inflamed spots appear—on different parts of the body, sometimes on the wrists. The inflammation runs on to suppuration, first assuming the appearance of small vésications, like those produced by a burn. Most commonly they appear about the joints of the fingers, and at their extremities, or whatever parts are affected : these suppurations put on a circular form, with their edges more elevated than their centre, and of a colour approaching to blue. Absorption of matter takes place, and tumours appear in each axilla, the system becomes affected, the pulse is quickened ; shiverings succeeded by heat, general lassitude, and pains about the loins and limbs, with vomiting, comes on. 'His head is painful, and the patient is even affected with delirium. These symptoms leave ulcerated sores, which are very troublesome, and commonly heal slowly, frequently becoming phagedenic, like those from whence they spring, and sometimes affect Ups, nostrils, and eyelids. Thus the disease makes its progress from the horse to the nipple of the cow. and from the cow to the human subject. But what renders the cowpox virus so extremely singular is this— The person who has been thus affected is for ever after secure from the infection of smallpox; neither exposure to the variolous effluvia nor the insertion of the matter into the skin producing this distemper THE BISHOP OF DROMIORE (the celebrated BISHOP PERCY), writing to the editor of the ••Gentlemans Magazine’ in 1808, says:— He cannot sufficiently express his surprise at die bold and unqualified manner in which the universal success of Vaccination is asserted on medical authority in the Gentieman's Mattatine. The Bishop adds that failures have occurred even in his own family, and in his immediate neighbourhood.'’ The RIGHT HON. GEORGE CANNING. — I8oS. “Although I consider the discover)’ of Vaccination to be of the very greatest importance, yet 1 cannot imagine any circumstances whatever that would induce me to follow up the most favourable report of its infallibility with any measure for its compulsory infliction.” THE LONDON MEDICAI OBSERVER Records the particulars of 535 diseases of persons having smallpox after Vaccination, including their names, with an index, pointing to the authorities as witnesses; also similar details oí 97 fatal cases of smallpox after Vaccination, and of 150 cases of injury arising from Vaccination, together with the addresses of ten medical men. including two Professors of Anatomy, who had suffered in their own families from Vaccination. Concerning these remarkable evidences, Dr. MAOLEAN observes: ‘• Although numerous, they are few in comparison to what might be produced. ... It will be thought incumbent on the vaccinators to come forward and disprove the numerous facts decisive against Vaccination here stated on unimpeachable authority, or make the amende honorable by a manly recantation. But experience forbids us to expect any such fair and magnanimous proceeding, and we may be assured that under no circumstances will they abandon so lucrative a practice, until the practice abandons them. —(Volume viii., 1810.) WILLIAM COBBETT. M.P. “There are some things more hideous than death, and more resolutely to be avoided ; at any rate, more to be avoided than the mere risk of suffering death. And, amongst such things, I always reckoned that of a parent causing the blood, and the diseased blood too, of a beast to be put into the veins of human beings, and those beings the children of that parent.” SIR HENRY HOLLAND. BAKT., M.D., E.R.S. " Not only in Great Britain, but throughout every part of the Globe, we find that smallpox has been gradually increasing in frequency as an epidemic ; affecting a larger proportion of the vaccinated ; and inflicting greater mortality in its results. "The early enthusiasm for the great discovery of JENNER swept doubts away ; and they returned only tardily, and under the compulsion of facts. Any explanation from the ignorant or imperfect performance of Vaccination, was found insufficient to meet the number and variety of the proofs. And, though more palpable at one time than another, according to the greater or less prevalence of epidemic causes, yet every succeeding year has multiplied them, and every statement from other countries attested their truth. " It is no longer expedient, in any sense, to argue for the present practice of Vaccination as a certain or permanent preventive of smallpox . The truth must be told, as it is, that the earliest anticipations on this point have not been realized. Whether smallpox may ever be wholly eradicated is a very doubtful question, and the probability is on the negative side."—Medical Votes and Reflections; London ; 1839 ; p.p 401, 415, and 416. 4 SIR ROBERT PEEL, BART.4C1849. "1 To make vaccination compulsory, as in some despotic countries, would be so opposed to the mental habits of the British people and the freedom of opinion wherein they rightly glory, that I never could be a party to such compulsion.'* ALEXANDER VON HUMOLDT. ••I have clearly perceived the progressive dangerous influence of Vaccination in England, France, and Germany.—Letter to GEORGE S. GinDS. KANT (quoted by DE QUINCEY). “Referring to JENNERS discovery of Vaccination, KANT apprehended dangerous consequences from the absorption of a brutal miasma into the human blood, or at least into the lymph.” BUCKLE says, “ KANT was always opposed to Vaccination :2 and refers the renderlo Cousin, Litt, iii., 321, 1849. DR. GEORGE GREGORY, for fifty years Director of the smallpox Hospital, London. “The idea of extinguishing smallpox by Vaccination is as absurd as chimerical, as irrational as arrogant.3 MARY RUSSELL MITFORD. three Mile Gross, February ist. 1850. "About two months ago. my man, a very steady and respectable servant, was seized with smallpox after Vaccination. He was very, very ill, delirious nearly a fortnight, and not a nurse could be got for love or money. I have lost all faith in Vaccination, cither as preventing or mitigating smallpox; 1 know of thirty severe cases, five of them fatal, in my own immediate neighbourhood, this winter, besides those in my own family, and in Reading it has been a pestilence.”—C. BONER’S .âfettiairs, p. 176, vol. i. PROFESSOR RICORD, M.D. Paris. “The obvious fact is. that if ever the transmission of disease with vaccine lymph is clearly demonstrated, must be altogether discriminated; for in the present state of science, we are in possession of no criterion which may permit the scientific practitioner to assert that the lymph with which he inoculates is perfectly free from admixture with tainted blood."-- lecture at the Hotel Dieu, Paris, 1862. PROFESSOR RICORD, M.D.. Paris. * first I repelled the idea that syphilis could be transmitted by Vaccination. The recurrence of tacts appearing more and more confirmatory, 1 accepted the possibility, with reserve and even with repugnance ; but to-day 1Mesi fate no to pruciaiui tMr reaiifjt—at the Academy of Paris, May 19th, 1863. * JOHN EPPS, 25 years Director of the Jennerian Institute, after vaccinating about 120,000 people, finally declared in 1861 :— “The vaccine virus is a poison. As such it penetrates all organic systems, and infects them in such a way as to act repressively on the smallpox. It is neither antidote nor corrigent, nor docs it neutralize the smallpox, but only paralyses the expansive power of a good constitution, so that the disease has to fall back upon the mucuous membrane. Nobody has the right to transplant such a mischievous poison compulsorily into the life of a child." London Vaccino last itu te ('pilrL ¡863. SIK JAMES PAGET, Surgeon Extraordinary to Her Majesty. “ The progress of the vaccine or variolous infection of the blood shows us that a permanent morbid condition of that fluid is established by the action of these specific poisons on it ; and although this condition may, so far, at least, as it protects the individual from any further attack of the so'tie dr feast, be regarded 3- exercising a beneficial influence upon the economy, yet it is not the less t» be looked upon as a morbid slate. In Conning an estimate of the persistent changes produced in the blood by this and similar infectious diseases, we must not lose Sight of the influence which the tissues, themselves altered by the inoculation, exercise upon the blood; they will necessarily react upon it, so as to assist materially in presenting a permanent morbid (though beneficial) condition. Lectures on Inflammation 1863. DK. JOSEPH HERMAN?'. Chief of the Imperial Wiede Hospital. Vienna, from 1858 to 1864. “When one has treated hundreds of cases of smallpox, both under sporadic and epidemic conditions, through many years and at all seasons, one comes to the decided conclusion that Vaccination ha» not the remotest effect on the outbreak, course. Ox issuc ut the disease.— Erom the Saturarsi. 6 I K. B. F. CORNELL, M.D., President of the Homeopathic Medical Society of New York. ‘ h is my firm conviction that Vaccination has been a curse instead of a blessing to the race. Every physician knows that cutaneous diseases have increased in frequency, severity, and variety to an alarming extent. To what is this increase owing ? Contagion may account for some of the varieties ; in a large majority, however, to no medium of transmission is the widespread dissemination of this class of diseases so largely indebted as to Vaccination.”—. Address delivered before the Homer opal his Medial Society of New York. February at h, 1868. DR. A. 11. CARON. Paris, Chevalier of the Legion of Honour, and Member of many learned Societies. “ For my own part, it is long since I have positively refused to vaccinate at any price. Vaccination is a bauble, gilded over indeed by Act of Parliament, but a bauble still, with which doctors rock too often to a fatal sleep the gullible children of the world. Letter to Dr. CAPLIN, Portman Square, London. 13. SIMON, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., &c., Medical Officer to the Privy Council. 14. is only during a part of the course of a vaccine vesicle that its lymph is suitable for further Vaccinations, for after a given moment, at which the contents of the vesicle possess their maximum of simple contagiousness, they tend more and more towards the flight} of common in fbunmatory products; and matter now taken (rum the vesicle is no longer the simple agent of a specific infection, but both has less cificiency for its real purpose, and is feciaUy able to ptaiuti other undesired results. '--Kepor t, 384. JOHN STUART MILL. * Stale can be called free when a man has not perfect control over his own health, bodily, mental, and spiritual." * L< )2 ENG is NIGrH II N< i ALE. “ Every one who knows am thing of public health questions, will ague as to the practical unity of epidemics and their determining causes, and that exemption from ail alike must be sought, not by any one thing, such as Vaccination, but by inquiring into and removing the causes of epidemic susceptibility generally." 7 ENOCH ROBINSON. M.R.C.S., late Medical Officer of Health for Dukinfield. " Before the child is three months old it meets with another influence that is calculated to strengthen any infective process which may be already at work in the system, and to originate such a process in a child otherwise healthy and vigorous. The most powerful infective substances arc the various forms of purulent matter (a low condition of living animal matter, and essentially a phase of disease). One of these purulent forms of matter is the fluid of the vaccine vesicle. When insetted and absorbed into the living blood by an unnatural method, it exerts an influence of an infective character, opposed to the healthy vital power, and weakening to the extent of its influence the natural vigour of the body. That the natural powers arc too strong for it in many cases, is recognized in the supposed necessity for re-vaccination. But in ascertaining the causes of the high rate of infant mortality, the degrading influence of vaccine matter must be considered.”—From Letter to the Local Board of Health on the Canses of Infant Mortality in Dr kinfeliç 1870. JOSEF HAMERNIK, M.D., Professor of the University of Prague, Bohemia, and Chief Physician of the Smallpox Wards of the General Hospital. “One would naturally suppose that a single case of the transmission of syphilis by vaccination , incontestably proved, would result in the immediate abandonment of the practice of Vaccination, in the instant withdrawal of the Government grant f<»r its support, and in advising the people as to the dangers of Vaccination, and showing the impossibility of any but misguided or self-interested physicians advocating its continuance.”—The History of Smal7for and Vaccination Prague, 1872. MR. JOHN SIMON. F.R.S., Medical Officer of the Privy Council. " Morbid poisons arc inoperative as exciting causes of inflammation, except where there is a definite bodily predisposition, the contagion of smallpox or measles having no more power to influence the unpredisposed body, than yeast has power to ferment alcohol or to turn pure water into beer."—inflammation P. 45 of Holme s Surgery, PROCESSOR FRANCIS W. NEWMAN. " Nothing is clearer to anyone who will open his eyes than that what is now railed Vaccination has no effect in lessening smallpox , and has frequent and terrible effect in doing mischief.” 8 4. ADOlkVOG I’, Professor of Medicine and Hygiene, Berne University. 5. All times, and in all places, the conditions and habits of life in a word, the social position of the people in question — influences the spread and intensity of most diseases, and specially of smallpox ; and Vaccination has no such influence." PROPESSOR SHELDON AMOS. “It is in the highest degree impolitic to incorporate a medical provision against a special and, no doubt, transient form of disease among the fixed institutions oí the country. Among other mischievous results, it diverts attention away from the true causes of all diseases, and must tend indirectly to make all the medical staff who derive emoluments under the Acts, to say the least of it, indifferent or not sanguine as to a time arriving when they can be dispensed with." MEDI" AL TIMES & GAZETIE, February 1st, 1873. . •• It is not fair to subject people’s children to risks such as those which vaccination-syphilis implies, with no alternative save to go to prison. The risk admitted, the option must follow, or the law will fall to the ground.” SIR tHOMAS CHAMBERS, Q. C., M.P., Recorder of the City of London. • - * • 1 find that of 155 persons admitted at the smallpox Hospital, m the parish of St. James’s, Piccadilly, 145 were vaccinated. At the Hampstead Hospital up to May 13lasi, out of 2,965 admissions, 2,347 were vaccinated. In Marylebone 93 per gent, of those attacked by smallpox were vaccinated. Can anyone after this be found to contend that Vaccination is a protection against smallpox ? DR. HOEBER, Homburg. « Il is a public secret that the Vaccination law stands upon feet of clay. A slight push is sufficient to overthrow the whole fabric." —Der Pi iikiischc Artzt, January, 1878. J. J. GARTH WILKINSON, M.R.C.S., author of -Human Science and Divine Revelation. * The \aceinátion movement grows, and shows its evil tendencies more and more, and corrupts the pseudo-scientific medicine * I the hour to its very core. PÅSTEUR’S experiments are the most complete exhibition of this fact. IB» end would be, 9 could lie obtain it, to poison «ill the blood of all the docks and herds of the world, in order to keep them in health for the use of mankind. How little he and his like know of the nature of the seeds of evil ; of the fruits that are inevitable from them.’'— October at h, 1S8r. DK. ALEXANDER WILDER. Professor of Physiology, United States Medical College, New York. “The propagation of disease (by Vaccination), on the pretext of thereby arresting disease, is bad in logic, wicked in morals, and futile in practice.” J. EMERY CODERRE. M.D., Professor of Materia Medica at Victoria University ; and for thirty years Physician at Hotel Dien, Montreal. “The notion of introducing a purulent virus into the human system is so revolting to physiological science, that it is surprising more caution has not been exercised in adopting it. It would not have been so, I feel sure, had not the necessities of medical men prejudiced their minds against the truth.” GLASGOW HERALD. March 4th, 1878. " It is no new theory that poisonous matter can be conveyed from one person to another in the vaccine lymph employed in the process of Vaccination, but it has never yet received such confirmation as in the figures Parliamentary Return, 433» Session 1877) which wc now have before us. It is indeed a most serious matter to find that the deaths from the fifteen diseases have increased in England and Wales from 124,799 in 1847, to 217,707 in 1875, whilst the population has only risen from 18 millions to less than 23 millions.*’— From Lending Article, March 4th, 1878. DK. HUBERT BOENS, B.Sc., Member of the Belgian Academy of Medicine, and author of numerous works on Vaccination and Variola . " Vaccinators must know that by Vaccination they do not avert smallpox , whilst they injure the health of children without any compensation whatever. The reign of Compulsory Vaccination is nearly over. The Latin race will not submit to the tyrannical law, and the English, the German, and the Slavs will not be imposed on much longer.” to MR. P. A. TAYLOR. M.P. " By the history ui smallpox, so far as it is known, and especially by its history as illustrated by official statistics during the last eighty years in Europe and the United States, the system of Vaccination has, in my opinion, been proved a delusive superstition. ”—From Reply to DR. W. B. CARPENTER, 1881. MR. BRUDENELL CARTER. F.R.C.S. " It seems to me, however, that the positions alike of the public and of practitioners have been changed for the worst by that aggregate of useless, meddlesome, and mischievous legislation known as the Vaccination Acts.”— Lancet June 131h, 1868. " I think that a large proportion of cases of apparently inherited syphilis arc in reality vaccinal .”— AfedLal Examine May 24. 1877. DR. H. OIDTMANN, Staff Surgeon, and Chief Physician to the Hospitals at Verdun and St. Quentin, during the Franco-German War— Referring, in his Report, to the enormous smallpox mortality in the French Anny as compared with the German, which he attributes to " the reliance on the infallible vaccinal protection and utter disregard of sanitation,” he adds, " Shortly before the outbreak of the War, the whole of the French army were re-vaccinated. This general Vaccination tended rather to extend the disease than to protect from itn—înti-Compulsory Vaccination December, 1876. ALEXANDER WILDER, M.D., Professor of Physiology, United States Medical College. " Inoculation with pis or morbid organic matter is dangerous, as even’ surgeon is aware .Hence Vaccination has been followed in many instances by swelling of the glands at the arm-pits, ulceration, and serious consequences. It was not well understood till VIRCHOW explained the process of capillary embolum. This consists in the experimental truth that any substance of a solid character, whether a particle of metal, a clot of fibrine, or a dead or diseased cell or corpuscle, will be caught in the finer capillary vessels of the body and obstruct them li was also discovered by ex perit no at .il investigation, that the injection of morbid liquids disturbs the blood very much ; not. however, causing direct embolism, but rather ulcerous discharges from the mucous membrane of the intestines.”—Scienti/ Afun, New York, December 6th. 1879. I I SIR JOSEPH W. PEASE, BAKT., MP. “The President of the Local Government Board cannot deny that children die under the operation of the Vaccination Acts in a wholesale way."—nJ 1878. DR. C. SPINZIG. St. Louis. U.S.A. 44 Vaccination is tantamount to ‘inoculation’ and constitutes poisoning a criminal offence to human health and life- which is statistically proved to afford no protective or mitigating power over smallpox ; and scientifically, in the nature of the case, it cannot possess any.”—From Variold, its causes mthír ami prophylaxis p. 7, St. Louis. 1878. GEORGE W. MALLONY, M.D. New York. U.S.A. “ I am opposed to Vaccination for several reasons : tst.—It is introducing into the human system a deleterious matter, which acts as a p<rmnncnl poison, which cannot be eradicated by any process known to science. 2nd.— Il degenerates the human family, by developing syphilis, scrofula, and consumption.—From new York Medical f 7'riòxnft September ¡51h, 1879." THE RIGHI HON. W. E. GLADSTONE. "Hawarden, April 171h. 1876. “ SiR,—I regard compulsory and fienai provisions, such as those of the Vaccination Act, with mistrust and misgiving, and were I engaged on an Inquiry I should require very dear proof of their necessity before giving them my approval. II. PITMAN, Esq. MORNING POST. May t6th. 1S81. " the virus is obtained from a child, it may Mr , and not un frequently is, tainted with some disease with which that child is infected, and in this way infection of a very serious kind is occasionally propagated." MK. JOHN M LAKEN, MP.. Lord Advocate for Scotland. " I should not have thought if advisable to enforce Vaccination by compulsory legislation, because it is a principle of common law* that no man should be compelled to submit himself or family to a medical or surgical operation without his own consent. 2 —January 24th, 1881. 1 2 SIR WILFRED LAWSOX', BAUT., M.P. «1 am opposed to the present system of what is called Compulsory Vaccination. The existing system is not compulsory, since a rich man, by giving er paying fines, can avoid it; ¡md so can the poor man, although he is sent to prison?’ The Right Hos. JOHN BRIGHT. M.P. «The law which inflicts penalty after penalty on a parent who is unwilling to have his child vaccinated is monstrous, and ought to be repealed.'' The KIGHT HON. EARL PERCY, M.P. ‘• Each (smallpox) epidemic, since JENNER’S system, has been more severe than the preceding one? — House of Commons, 1877. G. F. KOLB, of Munich, Member Extraordinary of the Royal Statistical Commission of Bavaria; author of several statistical works of European reputation. “ From childhood I have been trained to look upon the cowpox as an absolute and unqualified protective. I have, from my earliest remembrance, believed in it more strongly than in any clerical tenet or ecclesiastical dogma. The numerous and acknowledged failures did not shake may faith. 1 attributed them either to the carelessness of the operator or the badness of the lymph. In course of time, the question of vaccine compulsion came before he Reichstag, when a medical friend supplied me with a muss of pro-vaccination statistics, in his opinion, conclusive and unanswerable. This awoke the statistician within me. On inspection, I found the figures were delusive ; and a closer examination left no shadow of doubt in my mind that the so-called statistical array of proof was a complete failure. My investigations were continued, but with a similar result. For instance, in the Kingdom of Bavaria into which the cowpox was introduced in 1807, and where, for a long time, no one except the newly-born, escaped Vaccination, there were, in the epidemic of 1871, no less than 30.742 cases of smallpox . of whom 29,429 had been vaccinated, as is shown in the documents of the State Department. When, with these stern proofs before us of the inability of Vaccination to protect, we reflect upon the undeniable and fearful mischief which the operator so often inflicts upon his victims, the conclusion forces itself upon us, that the State is not entitled either in justice or in reason to put in force an enactment so directly subversive of the great principle (if personal light. In this matter Stale compulsion is, in my opinion, utterly unjustifiable.--From Letter to MR. WILLIAm TEBB, January 22nd, 1882. 13 HERBERT SPENCER. 'The measures enjoined by the Vaccination Act of 18ço were (n have exterminated smallpox; yet the Registrar-General's Reports show that the deaths from smallpox have been increasing." Social Statics p. 367. * • We are not certain that the propagation of subdued forms of constitutional disease through the agency of Vaccination is not a part-cause. Sundry facts in pathology suggest the inference that when the system of a vaccinated child is excreting the vaccine virus by means of pustules, it will tend also to excrete through • such pustules other morbific matters ; especially if these morbific matters are of a kind ordinarily got nd of by the skin, as are some of the worst of them. Hence it is very possible - probable even — that a child with a constitutional taint, too slight to shew itself in visible disease, may, through the medium of vitiated vaccine lymph taken from it, convey a like constitutional taint to other children, and these to others." Edircatwn, p. 18r. 1881. * am strongly opposed to Compulsory Vaccination.”—Letter to MR. W. TEBB. ' * C. H. HOPWOOD, Q.C: M.P. “ I never doubted Vaccination until 1 saw instances of parents prosecuted remorselessly and fined 30 and even 40 times, and others who could not pay lines repeatedly imprisoned, because, having lost one darling child or more by the effect of Vaccination, they most naturally refuse to imperil the existence of their other little ones. Such persecutions shocked me, and led me to enquire. I now believe that Vaccination kills more children than smallpox does- It conveys from arm to arm festering impurity and too often disgusting disease. When will the noble profession of medicine free itself from the temptation of pecuniary emolument or the influence of authority, too long obeyed with unreasoning and uninquiring docility ?" REKTOR P. A. SILJËSTROM, Sweden, late Member of the Legislature. “If, as the evidence proves, the general mortality is not in the least increased by smallpox, it is plain that the State has no occasion and no right tò enact any compulsory law. It is without doubt a complete, and completely insupportable tyranny too. for the State to impose on the. individual a surgical operation by which an illness as dangerous, or perhaps more dangerous, than the one sought to be averted, can be induced. It is even more than tyranny ; it is a crime, an offence against the dignity of humanity, and a shame upon science.” 14 BR. COLLINS, Licentiate oí the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, and M.R.C.S, England. “After twenty years’ experience as a public vaccinator, I am convinced that no amount of care nor attention to detail, nor cautious selection of lymph, can obviate the risk of Vaccination being followed by erysipelatous inflammation. In fact there is no certainty in the operation ; in some it runs a normal course with apparently little or no constitutional disturbance, leaving the depressed punctuated scars, which arc regarded by some authorities as the only guarantee of successful Vaccination ; whereas, in others, especially the strong and vigorous, I have known phlegmonous erysipelas not unfrequently to follow properly performed Vaccination. It was to this complication that Sir CULLING EARDLEY fell a victim, although his family, who were vaccinated at the same time, with the same lymph, suffered no inconvenience. We unfortunately have no method of ascertaining the impurity of vaccine lymph, except by its results; and these are not surprising when we remember it contains precisely the same microscopic particles as arc found in fluids capable of producing the acutest blood- poisoning."— i, Albert Terrace, Gloucester Gate, N.W., September 2nd, 1882. 19. JAMES'S GAZETTE. 20. ‘What happened at Norwich has been happening, in a greater or less degree, all over the country for years.”—From Leader onXerieù7i Vaccine disaster November 27th, 1882. TIMES, September 4th, 1882. “ Had the children not been vaccinated, they would apparently not have died of the disease which carried them off. . . To the parents of the sufferers at Norwich, the emancipation of the nation from smallpox is a poor compensation for their desolate homes.”— From Leading Article on norwich Vaccine Disaster. HON. FREDERICK DOUGLASS. “ 1 am with you in your opposition to Compulsory Vaccination. My logical facility was offended at it long ago. At best it was simply boring one hole to stop another, and now it seems not even to do that if men die of smallpox after Vaccination. " You do me justice when you count me on the side of liberty, and opposed to every species of arbitrary power. I am for the largest liberty of thought and conduct this side of crime. 1 am no more in favour of such power when wielded by a majority than when by an individual.”—Letter to Professor J. DOBSON, M.D., Washington, D.C., December 25th, 1882. 