sS   a d ab PHUZ> Ng a : i L18624) AGAINST  v SH Ezo359 e  VACCINATION.  A PROJECT, CORRESPONDENCE,  AND REFERENDUM.  GIVEN BY  RITISH LIBRARY OF  OLITICAL SCIENCE.  SOCIETY FOR  n  THE ABOLITION OF COMPULSORY VACCINATION,  II4 VICTORIA STREEF, WESTMINSTER.  1884. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Wo the Executive Committee of the London Society   for the Abolition of Compulsorp Baccination.  GENTLEMEN,  I propose that we add to the Objects of the  LONDON SOCIETY FOR THE ÅBOLITION OF COMPULSORY  VACCINATION—  The Defence of Members under prosecution for  refusal to vaccinate and the payment of their  penalties.  Why should we not apply the principle of co-operative  insurance against Vaccination ?  Why should we not band together, and taking a sub-  scription of 5s. a year from each member, guarantee him  against loss; that, if prosecuted, he will be defended ;  and that, if fined, his fine will be paid ?  Often have I hesitated to advise poor men and timid  men to resist the vaccination of their children ; not sure  that they had the means and the courage for persistent  resistance.  On the other hand, if we could say to the most fearful,  Join the LONDON SOCIETY, and you may defy the vac-  cination officer, how the position would be altered !  Many would join the SocrEerTy and contribute liberally  to its funds who are responsible for no children; but I  would have a minimum annual subscription of, say, 5s. to  attest sincerity, and for that sum would guarantee every  subscriber against pecuniary loss. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 4   We are fighting a battle, and it seems to me we  foolishly allow privates here and there to sustain the  brunt of the attack. If, on the contrary, we were united,  and repelled aggression in common, we should speedily  see an end of compulsory vaccination.  _ The stronghold of vaccination is not nearly so strong  as it looks, and if vigorously assailed, it would go down  with a crash. There isan immensity of latent sympathy  in the masses which can only be evoked if appealed to  in active dramatic fashion. Mere reasoning, however  able, is of little avail. It does not touch hearts, nor  generate fire. Englishmen wake up when they see  fighting going on; and what we anti-vaccinators have to  do is to declare open war; and for war to be successful,  it is necessary to stand shoulder to shoulder. It is  sickening, and it is disgraceful to us, to witness our  comrades in conviction attacked, and punished in detail.  It is objected that if the prosecuted are known to be  supported by a Society their prosecution will be more  persistent and the fines heavier. Probably it will be so  in some cases; but in others the effect will be the reverse.  It will be argued, What is the use of prosecuting men who  are supported by a Society? Itis to be remembered  that prosecutions as a rule are disliked by guardians and  vaccination officers. They cause much trouble and loss  of time, for which there is little compensation.  It is also objected that the Society would be involved  in serious legal expenses ; but for this there is no occasion.  The law allows any one to answer for the parent prose-  cuted, and many of our friends are in the habit of  appearing for parents who are engaged in business or are  too inexperienced or timid to plead for themselves. It  would be the duty of the Committee to organise such  voluntary advocacy. Moreover, experience in the law  would develop many unsuspected means of defence. Mr. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms r   o  F. D. Askey, writing in the Vaccination Inquirer,  observes—  “It is the bounden duty of all protestants who are  able to do so to resist the action of the justices and  magistrates, whenever it is, as it is constantly, un-  authorised and lawless. Paul, when brought before  Festus, would not submit without being judged after the  manner of the Romans, and appealed unto Cæsar. Anti-  vaccinators should claim to be dealt with in accordance  SNEEN  with the actual law. If they did so, they would not only  discover how shockingly innocent of legal knowledge  ARAON  petty justices generally are, and how difficult it may be  made for them to bring about convictions by legal means,  RIBARE  but would also find the consequent friction to be profit-  able as an obstructive force, and ultimately not to be  overcome by any executive combination whatever. the  vaccination laws would become a dead letter if all cases  arising under them were fought out.”  Mr. Askey is right. The vaccination laws would  become a dead letter if all cases arising under them were  fought out; but how are they to be fought out unless  under some such plan as is suggested ?  Again, it is said a combination to resist and nullify  the law might subject the Society to prosecution. I  question the likelihood; but if a prosecution were  instituted, what for our purpose could be more desirable ?  We should thereby succeed in demonstrating the erratic  and arbitrary character of the existing law—a character  of which its administrators are ashamed, and which no  politician on either side of the House of Commons will  venture to justify.  At all events, I urge that the experiment be tried. If  it should not answer, it can be abandoned. As we pro-  ceed, we shall acquire experience, and discover much  that is necessarily unforeseen. Of course the Society  would retain power to decline any insurance, whilst This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 6   those insured would pledge themselves to be guided by  those who are answerable for them. My own belief is  that the acceptance of this responsibility by the London  Society would result, as Mr. Askey says, in the reduction  of the vaccination laws to a dead letter.  Yours sincerely,  WILLIAM WHITE.  114 VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W.  28th August, 1884.  DEAR SIR,—The foregoing communication from Mr.  White will be considered by the Executive Committee ;  but prior to that consideration, the Committee would be  glad to hear from you any opinion or advice you may be  disposed to favour them with.  Yours faithfully,  WILLIAM YOUNG,  Secretary.  WILLIAM YOUNG. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms LEBT RS.   — ee  The COUNTESS DE NOAILLES.  I think the plan of insurance against vaccination  excellent, and I shall certainly support it if our friends  concur in approval. .  Mr. JOSEPH ABEL, Faringdon.  I fully agree with and heartily endorse the sentiments  pro and con in the circular letter proposing insurance  against vaccination. I would insist on the annual  minimum subscription of 5s. to attest sincerity. I  believe in some small towns it might increase prose-  cutions, but that would do us no harm. Should the  proposal be added to the objects of the Society, I would  willingly give the extra 5s. annual subscription, n0t  as a member to receive the benefit, but as a subseriber.  I should prefer in my own case, if prosecuted, to be able  to say that I am not helped by a society, although I feel  proud to be a member of anti-vaccination societies.  My wife has brought me another little girl, and I have  now five children unpolluted with the poisonous lancet,  and all, thank God, healthy and well.  Mr. WILLIAM ADAIR, Eskin Lodge, Keswick.  I cordially approve of the proposition, and hope it  may be adopted. I will then get as many members in  this town and neighbourhood as I can, and will also try  to induce our friends in various parts of the country to  enter heartily into the scheme, feeling sure it will help  forward the cause most materially.  The great majority of the working people of Cumber-  land would not have their children vaccinated but for  the law, and this plan would, I believe, induce numbers  of them to protect their offspring. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 8   Rev. HENRY J. ALLEN, Brighton.  I am fully convinced that if people could be helped in  any way, thousands would not submit to vaccination. I have opportunity of knowing the sentiments of many of  the poor, and almost invariably I have heard it said, “ If  we could be free by paying one fine we should not mind,  but we have to pay again and again, and we don’t know  e  the end of it.” I firmly believe if something could be done to help the people they would resist in such numbers that the courts of justice would be crowded.  Mr. A. ASHBY, Shefford, Beds.  I am quite sure of the necessity of such a further development of the Society’s work. The question is how  to apply the principle of co-operation so as to secure the  appreciation of the poorest. These hate vaccination with a perfect hatred, but they are slow to move and to recog-  nise the advantages of union. Moreover, I am sure few of them could pay the 5s. at once, as suggested by Mr.  White. We must have some plan of small and easy con-  tributions, either by local branches of the parent Society  or by independent societies. Of course artizans and tradesmen could pay 5s. down, and that would be the  easier way; but I desire to put forward the case of the  poorer working man for serious consideration. I hope this discussion may lead to the adoption of some work-  able plan that will bring resistance to a successful issue.  Mr. JAMES ATKINSON, Horsforth, Leeds.  I heartily concur in the suggestion of insurance against vaccination. It, however, will need pushing in a business-like way.  The Rev. Wu. ALEx. AYTON, Banbury.  I agree that if all would at once resist the compulsory  laws the Vaccination Acts would become a dead letter.  The difficulty is to get humans to act with unanimity. I  quite approve of the co-operative system to insure anti-  vaceinators against fines, and will give my subscription toward it. This content downloaded from ff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff on Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 9   It should be borne in mind that the franchise will  shortly be extended to two millions of agricultural  labourers, nearly all of whom are anti-vaccinationists. If  some of them do not think actively on the subject their  wives do, which is of more importance. As soon as the  Franchise Bill passes, some one should stump the country  and harangue the newly enfranchised, as Arch does.  Mr. GEORGE C. BEALE, Glounthane, Co. Cork.  I wish to be law-abiding, and yet I consider it quite  right to use any legitimate means to upset a law which  has proved to be so perfectly useless, and a monstrous  interference with parental rights. . . . Law is very  expensive, and would money enough be forthcoming to  defend cases by wholesale? Again, would there be  anything illegal in aiding and abetting in defying the  law? If the Executive Committee think insurance  feasible, I shouid be for trying it; but the liability of  subscribers should be defined. You may think I write  too indefinitely ; but I should be glad to see anything  that is right and proper tried that would help to get rid  of the odious Vaccination Acts.  Mr W. J. BETTLE, Stamford.  I am not greatly in favour of the scheme suggested.  Some magistrates, perhaps many, are opposed to deal-  ing harshly with persons summoned; and frequently  that moderation exhibits itself in very small fines; but  my experience enables me to say confidently that the  same moderation would not be shown toward a Society's  funds. In all probability the maximum penalty would  be exacted in every case, and perhaps excessive costs.  As an instance of this, I may say that being once  summoned for the non-vaccination of four children, my  fines and costs were mounted up to £11 18s.; and the  whole Bench was swayed by the statement of one of  their number, who declared (though quite erroneously)  that 7 should not have to pay, “ but a society.”  I would suggest that individual cases of hardship might  be helped privately. The animus would then be avoided  which would surely be raised against an insurance This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:041976 12:34:56 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 10   society ; and sufferers will feel and work more keenly  in our righteous cause than if their pecuniary burden  were lifted.  True, there is another aspect of this important subject  —namely, if for 5s. per year any objector to compulsory  - vaccination could defy the authorities, the number of  such would, doubtless, be legion. Still, I confess, I have  not much faith in a man’s conscientious seruples if he is  not willing to pay sharply in defence of them. We  want objectors for conscience, for reason’s sake; and I  prefer not to open a camp for the protection of the lazy.  Mr. BEN. THOS. BIRCH, King’s Lynn.  I can see no objection at all to co-operation against  the vaccination laws. My only fear is, as my experience  has proved, that you will find ‘difficulty in obtaining  subscriptions. I have frequently appeared in court for  those who dared to resist the law, but I should not feel  the same desire to support those who belonged to an  insurance society. Still I hope the project may succeed.  Mr. JOHN BOTTOMLEY, Great St. Helens, London.  Without trial it is impossible to say how far anything  will succeed ; but of one thing there can be no question,  there exists an enormous amount of latent objection to  compulsory vaccination, which is afraid to show itself  on account of the fear of prosecution and recurrent  penalties.  I am convinced that if for a small subscription you  could guarantee families from loss you would acquire  considerable and increasing support. I should very  much like to see the experiment tried. Whether 5s. per  annum is enough seems doubtful; but of course the  smaller the sum the better.  I talk to many people in a year about vaccination,  but am always afraid to recommend them too strongly  to incur the penalties likely to be imposed, knowing  that in many cases the resulting losses might prove very  serious; whilst others, after one or two fines, might cave  in, and have child or children vaccinated, thus doing This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms ti   more mischief than good by spreading discouragement,  and preventing others from entering the fight.  Organised defences would surely prevent some of the  bullying and illegality which are constantly practised  upon isolated and inexperienced defendants in  vaccination  tion suits.  Mr. Lovs BREEZE, Stratford, London.  I look on insurance against vaccination as a move in  the right direction, which I shall willingly support.  Doubtless there will be a prospectus setting forth ad-  vantages sufficient to induce hundreds, if not thousands,  to join in the movement.  Mr. G. T. BROWN, Great Yarmouth.  If the Executive Committee can by any means adopt  the system of insurance, I believe it would speedily  result in making the Vaccination Acts a dead letter, and  the relief afforded would be hailed with general satisfac-  tion by those in conflict with the law.  Mr. WILLIAM BUGBY, Ealing.  I am strongly in favour of the proposed scheme for  defraying the expenses of persons prosecuted for non-  compliance with the vaccination laws, and shall be pre-  pared to subscribe regularly to the fund. I believe such  a fund would secure to our cause a large number of  sincere friends who otherwise could not fight the battle  single-handed.  Mr. HENRY BRUMMITT, Lincoln.  I will, in as few words as possible, give the experience  of our local league. Itis a fine paying league, consisting  of about 230 benefit, and a few honorary members. The  custom of our guardians hitherto has been to prosecute  once only under Section 31; and during the eleven  years our Society has been in existence we have paid  upwards of £400 in fines and costs. Formerly full  penalties were inflicted, each prosecution costing 36s. 6d.;  but for nine years the fine has been 5s. A prosecution  now costs 21s. 6d.—namely, 6s. 6d., cost of order; fine  for disobeying order, 5s.; and 10s. costs. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 12   I trust there is not a town in England where a more  apathetic body of anti-vaccinists exists than in Lincoln.  Our members will not be at the trouble to appear before  the magistrates when summoned, batch after batch, and  the vaccination officer walks over the course. A woman  was the only one that has appeared for two years. She  gave the magistrates a twenty minutes’ lecture, and,  doubtless, would have given them more had she had the  company of nine summoned present for encouragement.  I am so disgusted with the apathy of our members  that I have given notice of a motion that unless members  -put in an appearance when summoned, that the League  do not pay their fines.  When a League pays fines, it is the means òf hundreds  of children remaining unvaccinated who otherwise would  be vaccinated. When prosecutions cease for a while  funds accumulate ; and when the committee is of the  right sort, they use their means for propagandism.  The reverse side of the question. Not many join our  League until there is a probability of prosecution ; and I  am sorry to say some withdraw when their fines are  paid. Our secretary has just shown me a list of  defaulters who have cost us a lot of money—some of  them glaring cases indeed.  Were I assisting in forming another League, my ex-  perience would İead me to dissuade from payment of  fines, and assist instead the family when a member went  to prison, or recompense them in the event of distraint.  I believe such means would do more towards repealing  the Vaccination Acts than paying fines.  I may mention when I was summoned four years ago,  and pleaded for mitigation of penalty, the vaccination  officer told the magistrate that he had reason to believe  that we all belonged to a Society that paid our fines,  and asked for a higher penalty. Of course I soundly  rated him for exceeding his powers, and he was repri-  manded from the Bench ; but it checkmated my appeal,  and no mitigation was made.  The foregoing experience is that of Lincoln only, and  I hope that other societies consist of members with more This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 13   backbone. The question of insurance has two sides, and  much may be said for both.  Mr. R. T. BULL, Burnham, Essex.  I thoroughly concur in the scheme, and shall subscribe  10s. yearly if a Defence Society is formed.  Mr. JAMES BURNS, Southampton Row, London.  The proposal so well put forward by Mr White I made  to Mr. R. B. Gibbs when we used to meet at Armfield’s  Hotel, Finsbury, nearly twenty years ago. To have  attempted to carry it out then would no doubt have  resulted in wasted effort. The time was not ripe for  action. Itis different now, and I would urge the ener-  getic carrying out of the suggested plan. Though my  children are grown up (unvaccinated), I would become  an annual subscriber of 5s., and take part in platform  work for the recommendation of the system to the  public. It would give a fresh impetus to the movement,  and distribute in a wholesome manner the burdens of  martyrdom.  Mr. F. CHALK, Ipswich.  I think if insurance against vaccination were started,  it would be one of the finest things for anti- vaccination  tionists ever instituted. We could then move with more  freedom than we do now in country towns. For example,  I myself have three children unvaccinated, and am afraid  to stir up the question too much for fear of bringing the  law upon my own head; but if once I knew that my  expenses would be paid I should endeavour to make  Ipswich a warm place for vaccinators; and I am sure  there are many here who would do the same. I have  mentioned the insurance project to some of our A,-V.’s,  and they are all favourable to it. In fact, I am sure you  could enrol a number of members here, as the feeling is  very strong against the law, but many cannot face the  penalties. If insurance is started, I should like to see  every member supplied with copies of the Vaccination  Acts, so that they could study them well, and see that  they were not improperly applied. We should also have This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 14   a supply of photographs of children diseased or killed by  vaccination, in order to make visible the risks and horrors  of the beastly practice.  Mr. HENRY CLARK, Crewe.  Insurance against vaccination should not weaken the  resolution of those who would not pay a penny fine.  Every encouragement should be given to those who pre-  for imprisonment, and the families of such should be  supported during their incarceration. Those who prefer  to pay fines, let their fines be paid. These two points  made clear, I would subscribe my 53s. Of course the  insurance project is not a commercial speculation.  Mr. CHARLES D. COATES, Reigate.  The Reigate Guardians have decided to commence  proceedings for the seventh time for my disobedience to  their orders, which will be treated with the same con-  tempt as hitherto.  I am afraid the scheme for insurance against  vaccination  tion is too good to be successful, I am fined 20s., and  13s. 6d. costs, which, with the cost of an order, 9s. 6d.,  amounts to £2 8s. each time I am prosecuted—an amount  I have sometimes paid three and four times a year. In  the future it may be more frequent, so that I should be  quite a sinking fund were your Co-operative Insurance  Company to grant me a policy at 5s. a year premium. I  shall be pleased to become a member should the matter  be taken up, as I hope it will. Policy-holders, of course,  would have no more responsibility than ordinary policy-  holders in other insurance associations; but this should  be made clear, or people might be shy of joining.  Mr. J. K. COLLETT, Cardiff.  Mr. C. F. CoRLAss, Hull.  I am certainly of opinion’ that insurance against  vaccination is eminently desirable; and a metropolitan This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 15   society would be far stronger and more efficient than  local societies. If a well-conceived scheme is matured  and worked out, I shall support it to the best of my  ability.  Mr. THOMAS CRAGOE, Truro.  As to Mr. White’s proposal of Insurance against Vac-  cination, I can see only one objection, and that objection  is more sentimental than valid, namely, Pay nothing into  the hands of the Enemy. The injunction is theoretically  right, but at the same time it is a Spartan precept, head  and shoulders higher than the present status of society.  We must cut our coat according to our eloth, and deal  with facts as we find them. As a matter of fact people  do pay fines, and will continue to do so spite of adjura-  tion to the contrary. Only a few, strong in their sense  of right, dare the authorities to do their worst.  Would an annual subscription of 5s. meet expenses ?  I am sure the system of insurance would become popular.  Dr. EDWIN J. CROW, Ripon.  “ Insurance against Vaccination” is exactly what is  wanted. I hope most earnestly it will be tried.  Mr. JAMES DEWHURST, Failsworth.  I think the London Society would do well to adopt  Mr. White’s proposal. I am only surprised that the  Society has not adopted the system of insurance earlier.  It makes members more independent, and puts them in  better fighting condition. It is almost certain that our  cause to a great extent will have to be won in the police  courts. Provision should be made for members more  determined than others, who would elect to go to prison,  or allow their goods to be seized—taking care they  suffered no loss by the bolder course. fhis I would  wrge very strongly.  I was one of the few that commenced the Oldham  Society on the insurance system, and we have made  rapid strides. We now number between three and four  hundred members. This year we have had an increase  of 90; or 40 per cent. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 16   Mr. WILLIAM DEWING, Guisborough.  I endorse the proposal. If fines were provided for by  mutual insurance, lots of parents would stand out who  now submit. A fine of 20s. and costs falls very heavy  on a poor working man, and he must be very resolute  indeed who endures such a penalty again and again. I  had the vaccination officer at my door the other day.  He came about my last child, which is about four  months old. Outof twelve children I have, only one is  vaccinated, of which I delight to boast. Their preserva-  tion has caused me great inconvenience and expense,  but I am thankful that through all I have been enabled  to stand faithful. There is no doubt, as Mr. White  points out, that a Society could defend poor men  ignorant of the law far better than they can defend  themselves; and for the provision of such defence I  think they have a claim on those who advise them to  resist vaccination.  Mr JOHN DODÐGEON, Padiham.  As to insurance against vaccination, I hardly know  what to say of it. When I was summoned by the  Burnley Guardians in 1874, on my second appearance in  Court, the Bench talked about fining me, when I told  them it would make no difference to me, as my fines  would be paid by a Society, and my child would never  be vaccinated. The magistrates’ clerk then sneeringly  replied, “In that case we will spend some of your  Society’s money.” After two or three appearances  before the Justices, they began to say, “ What is the use  of bringing this man here? He will never yield so long  as his fines are paid for him.” Not long after they gave  me up altogether.  Since that time the Guardians have worked on the  principle of not summoning more than about twice for  the same child. They have found out that if a man  resists two or three times there is not much hope of  making him come to. Yetifa system of paying fines is  organised, I fear it will be a long time before we get the  . vaccination laws repealed. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 17  I think a better plan would be to get up a fund by  annual subscriptions and donations, and, instead of pay-  ing fines quietly, get as many of the subscribing members  as possible to let their prosecutions run on to distraint,  and buy in their goods for them. This may be a little  more costly than quietly paying the fines, but it would  rouse the attention of the public, and, being very  obnoxious to the officers of the law, would not often be  repeated with the same individual. Every care should  be used that the funds be such as will meet the claims  of prosecuted subscribers.  if a system of paying fines were adopted, I should  have it understood that it would be a favour to the  Society if those who could afford it would return their  fines to the treasury of the Society.  Mr. T. DUxBURYy, Blackburn.  Insure by all means, and defend all cases. I believe  insurance has in it the seed of victory. Depend upon it,  legal resistance is what alone will compel attention at  St. Stephen’s. It is the most effective, and even the  cheapest, mode of agitation. Yes, #nsure and defend.  Let distraints be the ruling mode of payment. A sub-  scription of 5s. per year from 50 children in three years  will, I doubt not, be self-supporting; but if otherwise,  for the extra cost we shall have such agitation as has  been hitherto unknown on the vaccination question.  The extra costs of distraint also operate for good in dis-  couraging prosecutions, and thereby diminishing fines ;  besides, distraints advertise our principles and bring us  sympathy and fresh adherents. In short, by fighting  systematically we earn compound interest.  To me insurance is the future form of agitation. We  pay fines, but we do not combine to pay fines, but to  resist the law most effectively. Local societies should  make insurance a prominent feature in their programme.  It will give them work and keep them. alive, and endow  them with manifest prosperity.  Mr. JAMES EADIE, Piercefield, near Taunton.  I have read the circular relative to insurance against  2 This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 18  vaccination, and think it would be a good move, provided  it can be done legally.  Colonel J. M. BARLE, West Kensington.  I have frequently thought it would be excellent as  well as charitable if we could pay the fines and legal  expenses of persons prosecuted; but to carry out such a  project would entail heavy expenses. The plan, however,  of insuring against vaccination seems admirable, and I  feel confident of its ultimate success. If at first there  were some loss, subscriptions might be trusted to make  it good. We should be sure of public sympathy if we  showed ourselves in earnest. Every case defended, even  if lost, would excite attention and diffuse information,  which, after all, is the one thing needful; for it is apathy  and ignorance which chiefly obstruct our movement.  As for the supposition that we might possibly expose  ourselves to prosecution for inciting certain persons to  evade the law, I doubt if such prosecution would prove  effectual. The law gives every parent the choice of  having his child vaccinated, paying a fine, or suffering  imprisonment. All we should be doing under the plan  suggested would be to assist parents in making the  choice, and to defend them against unjust and illegal  prosecutions—a proceeding on our part of the most  undoubted legality.  In the event of the plan being carried out, I shall  subscribe £5 annually to the fund.  Mr. G. H. ELLINGWORTH, Leicester.  If gone into with spirit, insurance would answer. In  Leicester alone many hundreds would become sub-  scribers. Whether this would affect our League I do  not know, but hardly think it would. Perhaps it would  cause people to be careless as to the “ defence,” leaving  all to the agent of the Insurance Company; but pro-  vision might be made to counteract this tendency. f  firmly believe that a large number of members would, be  enrolled in small towns and villages where the agitation  is as yet hardly recognised; and a great increase of This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 19  strength from what are at present barren districts would  result. Once support solitary individuals in towns of  2,000 to 6,000 inhabitants, and county M.P.’s and magis-  trates would very soon feel the influence.  The proposed subscription of 5s. per head seems to me  too small. Some, I fear, would never insure until threat-  ened, and when delivered from personal danger would  cease to subscribe. Further, 5s. paid aé once would be a  heavy charge for some people, as I know from experience.  I would provide for payments weekly, monthly, or  quarterly ; and there is the difficulty of collecting such  subscriptions to be considered.  I think 24d. at least per week would be willingly paid,  or 2s. per quarter. In large towns agents could readily  be found to collect and canvass, and no doubt in many  instances our friends would assist willingly. By agents  I do not mean men employed solely for the purpose, but  persons already engaged as weekly collectors for com-  panies and societies of various kinds. Among no class  of men have we such friends as “insurance agents ”—  the Prudential especially—and these are capable of doing  for us an endless amount of good.  You will no doubt have every view of the case  presented ; but I beg that in considering the pros and  cons you will not overlook this fact—that in nearly  every small town in England there are good men and  true who do not believe in compulsory vaccination, if  they believe in vaccination at all; and as soon as they  find they can have legal assistance (if necessary) they  will be up in arms, and our agitation will spread in the  counties like wildfire; and instead of its being limited,  as at present, to certain towns, we should in a short  time. have conflict established in every quarter of  England.  Since writing the above I have been consulting with  several business men who are anti-vaccinators, and well  up in such matters, and they express their decided  approval of the scheme, and say they would give it  their hearty support. Many who would commence with  insurance against vaccination would afterwards proceed This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 20  to agitate and proselytise when they discovered they  could do so with safety.  Mr. GEORGE S. GIBBS, Darlington.  I think objections predominate. Many local societies  have gone on the plan of insurance, and have been  obliged to give it up on account of the falling away of  members soon after the prosecutions were over. In  some places the funds raised have been wholly absorbed  in expenses and fines, and the propaganda in this way  has been stopped. No doubt.4f every parent summoned  put in an indignant appearance before the magistrate  the effect might be different.  To establish a system of the kind proposed seems to  concede the permanency of the law. Now,it seems to  me that what is more desirable than relieving people  from the effects of the law is to get the law repealed,  and unless people are riled by the effects of the law,  they are politically useless, as was recently shown at  Lincoln, where the insurance system is very well carried  out.  The existence of the law depends on the ignorance of  the influential classes, and the plan proposed would not  reach them; and the half-and-half people among them  would perhaps think themselves quite relieved by sub-  scribing a few shillings a year.  Mr. THOMAS GILES, Cricklade.  I have sought the opinion of as many as I could, and  the general opinion is that insurance should have been  started years ago, and that the Society in its present  form is prone to do harm; for whilst it does all in its  power to set people against vaccination, it does nóthing  to assist them when brought into conflict with the law.  Hundreds opposed to vaccination have paid fines until  they could do sono longer. I therefore trust thè com-  mittee will lose no time in considering the matter, but  will, if possible, proceed to business at once. Many will  contribute to insurance who have themselves no children  to answer for. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 21  William Ockwell and I are working men. Ockwell  has two children, and cannot afford to pay from £3 to £4,  as did our neighbour, Mr. Wheeler; and he is certain to  be served in the same way. I cannot afford to pay  £1 17s. 6d. after paying £1 only in May, when Ockwell  also paid £2. From this you will see how the matter  stands with us in country parts. We cannot hold out  unless we are assisted either in our defence or in the  mitigation of penalties. And yet your Society advises  us to resist at all hazards, without, I fear, considering  what resistance in cases like ours really means.  Mr. W. W. GRANT, Newport, Monmouthshire.  Paying fines is rather repugnant to me, but, taking  everything into consideration, I think it preferable to  suffering incarceration. A great many Englishmen,  myself among the number, consider imprisonment, which  means loss of position and employment to many, incon-  sistent with duty to their families. By all means let  insurance be organised. I will contribute for one.  Mr. JOHN GOODMAN, Sherfordville, Taunton.  I am exceedingly pleased with the proposal, more  particularly as regards the defence of the prosecuted. I  believe you can rely on the accession of several members  from Taunton. Many would join who are afraid of the  risk of persecution. I believe, too, co-operation for  defence would unite us together more firmly.  I think some registration fee should be paid for each  child, either once or annually, in addition to the annual  subscription, soas to help to meet the expenses incurred  by long families. I should suggest ls. registration fee  for each child liable; and the name of each child in full  should be registered, to prevent ońe fee covering a family.  I shall be much pleased to subscribe, and have those  of my children under age registered, although the  guardians, of whom. I am a member, have long ceased  from prosecuting me — giving me up as incorrigible,  although I have eight children who have not bowed  down to their filthy goddess. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 22  Mr. J. F. HAINES, 212 Mile End Road, London.  Undoubtedly, if people knew that they would have  their fines paid, it would bring adherents to the move-  ment and increased resistance to the rite; but whether  the scheme is practicable on sound financial principles is  another matter. I believe there are some able actuaries  among us, and the best plan would be for one or two of  them to draw up a scheme and submit it to the com-  mittee. The difficulty is to induce people to resist—  their dread being repeated fines.  Dr. EDWARD HAUGHTON, Upper Norwood.  Mr. White’s scheme is really Mr. Young's revived.  The idea is good, if worked on a large scale, and on a  sound commercial basis. These conditions are essential.  Mr. W. H. HITCHINGS, Lawrence Hill, Bristol.  I claim to know something of the vaccination agita-  tion, having been robbed in more ways than one by the  vaccination officer. For our first child we paid six fines  and costs during two years—É£1 fine each time, and 6s.  costs. For another child we were fined £1 and costs,  and then let alone, the authorities having for one cause  or other recognised the uselessness of prolonging the  conflict. The chance of protection for 5s. annually  would be to us gain and help, as I am still under liability  for three children, one of whom I registered the other  day. I think it would be easy for me to get 5s. sub-  scribers here, but whether to the advantage of the  Society I do not profess to say, unless accompanied by  a due proportion of childless ones.  Mr. FRED. HODGSON, Southport.  Mr. White’s letter was an agreeable surprise, exactly  expressing, as it does, my own opinion that such an  experiment should be tried. I, too, have often hesitated  to advise resistance to the law, or rather have often felt  that, in the absence of insurance, the advice was in many  instances useless. I think the feasibility or otherwise of  the plan can only be discovered by a trial, which I would  strongly advise. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 23  Mr. J. HUNNs, Highgate.  I fully agree with Mr. Askey and Mr. White that if  `  each and every case were fought out that the compulsory  law would collapse. It seems tome that adequate use  has not hitherto been made of what I will term the right  of audience. If any person summoned can depute any  other person to appear and answer the summons, then  the best course to pursue is to organise a system whereby  a competent and resolute spokesman may attend and  defend every case where the defence is likely to be  timid or inefficient. The defence would be addressed to  |.  the public and the press as much as to the bench, and  would be a sort of propaganda. Then opportunities for  taking technical objections would arise; instructive  cross-examinations could be made; and time could be  wasted and the Acts generally obstructed. All this  could well be done, and within well defined legal lines.  But I fear the combination for insurance would bring its  members within the purview of the law, and our good  friend Mr. Hopwood should be asked for his valuable  counsel.  Sir JERVOISE ÛLARKE JERVOISE, Bart.  I shall be ready to join with others in the payment of  penalties for refusal to vaccinate.  Mr. H. JONEs, Ruardean.  I look upon Mr. White’s proposal with much satisfac-  tion. If carried out, it will raise up a strong and useful  Society. I feel sure that many in this district would  join it.  Rev. W. I. KEAYy, Great Yarmouth.  I think insurance against vaccination is the one thing  necessary to make our opposition complete. It has my  hearty approval.  Mr. SAMUEL KNOWLES, Halifax.  I am quite willing to adopt any plan to bring about  the speedy repeal of the Vaccination Acts, and though I  have no child to vaccinate, nor am likely to have any,  still I would willingly pay 5s. a year to the London This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 24  Soeiety, if a rule were made that every member pledge  himself at entrance to vote for no candidate for any  public office who was not opposed to compulsory  vaccination  tion. I donot hold that it is a right principle to pay  fines, but if by so doing we can hasten the downfall of  the polluting and poisoning practice, then I am willing  to adopt it.  Mr. LE LUBEZ.  I agree with the proposal to establish insurance for  the protection of persecuted anti-vaceinators, and if  started shall become a subscriber.  Dr. MACKENZIE, Inverness.  I entirely approve of the insurance scheme if the  Executive Committee can see how to enlist sufficient  members to meet the expense. I do not anticipate  more prosecutions than we have now “because people  are insured,” nor can I see any risk of prosecution by  Government of the organisation proposed. Eighty years  old, and almost bed-fast, I am past being of use to your  Committee; but I earnestly pray that God may kindly  give such wisdom to those now meditating these projects  for good that they may utterly confound the fools or  knaves who are void of, or will not use, the little reason  they possess.  Mr. H. J. MAxFIELD, Warminster.  I think the project of co-operative insurance against  vaccination a very good one, and I should like to see it  carried out. There are numbers who would decline  vaccination if they only felt sure that their liabilities  were limited. They would gladly pay 5s. a year for  protection. I have four unvaccinated children, and my  neighbour opposite has three; and 5s. a year since we  have been married would have more than covered cur `  fines and expenses.  Mr. J. T. MEEHAN, Peterborough.  I consider the insurance scheme a very good one:  Many say they should willingly stand out, but cannot  fight the big folk alone and single-handed. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Mr. R. A. MILNER, Keighley.  I have all along been convinced of the need of sup-  porting isolated cases where a brave man is found in the  midst of arrogant and hostile neighbours. In places like  Keighley, where a local league exists, good might be  done perhaps, but I think local effort should be inter-  fered with as little as possible. We know occasionally  of good anti-vaccinators removing to districts where they  are without friends and sympathy, and where the law is  carried out, succumbing to the pressure put upon them.  In such cases insurance would be invaluable. There is  no telling the amount of pluck and usefulness an indivi-  dual may develop when strengthened from without,  becoming a living lecture to his neighbourhood. Apart  from the humanity of the project, it is marked by good  generalship. It will demonstrate to those in authority  that we intend to defeat them. The law, I believe, will  never be repealed until it is made obsolete. So long as  medical men can get money easily with the law in force,  they will support it vigorously, as was proved by the  memorial they sent to the Local Government Board  when the Government proposed to abolish repeated  penalties. No movements succeed so well as those  which appeal to selfish convenience—the more a move-  ment affords to its supporters in return for their sub-  scriptions, either in a sense of security, or an assurance  that if they are fined a fuss will be made about it, the  more will it extend its ramifications and influences. There  is only one difficulty I see—you may sometimes get im-  posed upon in distant quarters. I hope funds will be  sufficient to pay an agent to go about holding meetings,  appointing local agents, and collecting subscriptions.  Mr. ÅLFRED MILNES, M.A., Wandsworth.  I am anxious to impress the need of caution in the  matter of the insurance scheme. Mr. Hopwood should  be asked for his definite opinion as to its legality before  we move. As we press our opponents harder, they will  become more spiteful; and we should be fools indeed to  expose ourselves to a criminal prosecution. If within  the law, the idea is excellent. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 26  Mr. GEORGE MITCHELL, Linden House, Bungay.  I consider the project of insurance very necessary, and  will willingly contribute a yearly sum if adopted. I  have been repeatedly fined for refusing to have my  children vaccinated; but the guardians have let me  alone for two years past, and I have no reason to  suppose that they will again prosecute me.  Mr. H. N. MozLEy, M.A., Chancery Lane.  I think you will have anticipated what kind of answer  I should give to Mr. White’s proposition. I cannot  approve of it at all. Should it be adopted by the  Executive Committee I should move at the first annual  business meeting that it be rescinded, and while it is in  operation I cannot consent to give a penny to the funds  of the Society. I should be very sorry indeed to sepa-  rate myself from the Society, but I hardly see that any  other course would be open to me.  Endeavouring to place myself in the position of a  parent summoned for not having his child vaccinated, I  should consider it something like an impertinence to be  told by anyone else, “ Oh, we will defend you and will  pay your fine.” I should answer,“ Thank you, I don’t  want to be defended, and I shall certainly not pay any  fine, nor sanction the payment of any fine in my behalf.”  Above all things I should hate to be defended on the  ground that the vaccination officer had not been appointed  under seal, a matter which to ordinary common sense  must appear somewhat irrelevant. The factis, the only  real and substantial defence, and the only defence which,  if I were in the position of a defendant, I would care to  put forward would be that the vaccination laws were  utterly wicked and unjust, and that they cannot be  obeyed without sin against a Higher Power than the  legislator. But that is a defence to which not one  magistrate in twenty would listen with patience.  I have no right nor wish to judge any parent who  takes a different view of this matter from myself, or  those who desire to befriend him. But I must act upon  my convictions in the matter. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 27  Mr. White seems to make very light of the objection  that the insurance he proposes would be wholly illegal.  I consider, on the other hand, that resistance to law is a  very serious matter, and one to be strictly limited to the  occasion that demands it. If a man is willing to go to  prison rather than obey the law, that is a test of earnest-  ness and sincerity, which is wholly wanting (I mean the  test is wanting) where it is a matter of a few shillings.  I dissent altogether from the opinion which Mr. White  seems to hold, that it is a question of pecuniary loss.  The question is, whether honest parents who disagree  with vaccination are to be treated as criminals.  There is another matter upon which the Society ought  to be very clear if it takes money from parents for  insurance. The Society ought to make it clear that it  undertakes no legal liability whatever, and that whoever  subscribes will have no remedy whatever in a court of  law in respect of any such insurance. This could easily  be done by such a phrase as “Should the Society in its  uncontrolled discretion think the case a proper one, but  not otherwise.”  Professor Newman tells me that he held the same  view some years ago, but he has now somewhat departed  from it. He has no strong opinion upon the subject.  Mr. GEORGE NEWMAN, Gloucester.  Some of our members wished to start something of  the sort in Gloucester, and we very fully discussed the  matter, and decided against it; but our fines here are  very light, and there is really no excuse for anyone who  has any faith and fight in him having his children  vaccinated. At the same time, one would like to do  something to help those in worse off districts; but I do  not agree with Mr. White that the experiment might be  tried and abandoned. If not successful it will have to  be abandoned, but I do not believe in entering a fight  without being pretty sure of winning.  As to upsetting prosecutions on technical grounds, I  have no doubt it could be done in many cases at first,  but you would soon teach the prosecutors the law, and This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 28  not, perhaps, to our advantage. Here I have always  advocated taking no notice of slips in procedure, as we  get off so lightly. In places where the extreme penalty  is exacted and repeated, it would be different. There I  would fight to the last.  I shall be much interested to know your decision; but  don’t begin unless you are satisfied that success is more  than probable.  Mi. F. PEARSE, Andover.  I thoroughly endorse the views so well expressed by  Mr. White. In my opinion it is the best means of  rendering the Acts nugatory. Itisa crying shame that  the most earnest among us should have to pay so dearly  for upholding the faith, especially as it generally happens  that the poor man is selected to be made an “example”  of. Itisa well-known fact that where prosecutions are  most severe the cause languishes, and is generally starved  out, very few having the moral courage to withstand the  continual drain on their resources, and the mental worry  caused thereby. Andover (as a case in point) was once  one of the most notorious of towns by reason of its dis-  graceful persecutions. Mr. Young will remember I was  the victim of some forty or fifty prosecutions, which I  Rever could have borne single-handed but for the grate-  ful help afforded by the admirable Society of which he  and Mr. Proudman were the leaders. The result of the  cessation of this senseless tyranny on the part of the  Andover authorities has been that, when formerly there  were but two or three of us in the field, we now number  some two or three dozen non-vaccinating parents.  1f the project is worked out, I should say the minimum  subscription should be 10s. 6d. at least. I am afraid it  would not be self-supporting for a less sum. I should be  pleased to join, and could get others here to do the same.  Colonel A. PHELPS, Edgbaston.  The Insurance Company would, I suppose, be separate  from the London Society. If it were a branch, the  failure of the insurance scheme might entail the shutting  up of the parent Society. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 29  If the Insurance Company starts as a Company  Limited, the question arises whether it would be a  commercial success. It would perhaps ensure its being  so if no town or district in the country were admitted  to its benefits unless some limited number of subseribers  joined. If a hundred members joined in a town they  might be suċcessful, whereas five members would be  likely to make a weak resistance to the law, and so  involve the Society in loss without equivalent result.  I find there is a strong repugnance among the wage  class everywhere to vaccination. In Bognor, Droxford,  Basingstoke, wherever I have inquired into the subject,  I find parents complaining of the harm it has done to  their children. But they all fear to resist; they cannot  afford to quarrel with the authorities. I therefore think  | it will be only in the larger towns, where the poor are  less afraid of becoming “marked men,” that the pro-  posed insurance would be taken up. Perhaps a trial  might be made in one of the large towns, or in one of  the large London Districts before the experiment was  made general.  Mr. HENRY PITMAN, Manchester.  I entirely approve of the proposed insurance against  vaccination. It is time we became more aggressive, as  well as more defensive, in resisting this inhuman law. I  hope funds will come in to enable the entrance-fee to be  lowered or removed.  Rev. JOHN F. POTTS, Glasgow.  So far as I can judge, the proposal of Mr. White to  defend members under prosecution, and to pay the  penalties inflicted on them is a good one. I have often  wondered why it was not done. I hope I am past all  my own troubles of that kind, but certainly I can see  how great a comfort and encouragement such a measure  would be to those who are placed in the unpleasant  dilemma of having baby vaccinated against their wishes,  or being prosecuted as they imagine an indefinite number  of times.  My own experience leads me to think that people are This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 30  prosecuted as little as possible as soon as the authorities  are convinced that in any case vaccination will never  take place.  The committee alone can judge whether it is possible  to raise the funds that would be required, and perhaps  for a few years largely required, in order to carry out  such a plan. In so far as I am concerned, I should  certainly do all I could to support the movement.  Mr. DANIEL PRICE, Hazel Slade, Hednesford.  I highly approve of the project of fighting out the  vaccination question by co-operation, and shall contribute  £1 yearly; and I think I shall be able to induce many  to join, some of whom would subscribe £1, as I do.  Mr. SAMUEL PRIDE, Liverpool.  In my opinion the scheme would in many places work  to good purpose, and would perhaps show at its best  where the defendant treated all notices and summonses  with quiet neglect, or sent word to the Court that they  could go on fining until they were tired, the money being  paid for him by a Society. Few magistrates, one would  think, would wish to continue a prosecution against an  offender on such terms. They all know what their  dignity is.  The worst of it is we should be so easily assailable  from vaccine head-quarters. Say we had a capital of  £100. Instructions could be sent by the enemy to some  town where the population is defiant, and a hundred  recaleitrants selected to be summoned and fined 20s. each  without costs; and there goes all our money at one fell  swoop! We might live long or short, but certainly our  career could be brought to an ignominious termination  on any day the oppressor liked to give a thought to the  matter.  Still, as Mr. White hints, we might discriminate in  our cases, backing up weak individuals where help would  best tell, but evading the clutches of the authorities ofj  Leicester, Banbury, etec., where the heroes dwell. Would  the scheme stand this complication ? This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms al  Mr. J. W. PROUDMAN, Paddington.  My views upon the proposed venture can be better  imagined by old anti-vaccinators than expressed by  myself. A similar effort in conjunction with Mr. Young  will perhaps justify a few words.  It must be an aggressive as well as a defensive  organisation, summoning recruits to resistance as well as  aS RBUESEEa DETG  defending those engaged in the conflict.  No Society will be worthy of its calling unless it pro-  vide for the very poorest. 6d. a month would suit many  better than 5s. a year. On one side there will be gain  from subscriptions and donations; on the other there  will be expenditure without corresponding return.  There should be an emergency fund to warrant action  at the shortest notice. Not one poor lamb should be  left to the vaccination wolves.  The repeal of the iniquitous Vaccination Acts is only  a question of organisation, and of money well and wisely  spent. Itis quite possible by judicious action to reduce  them to a dead letter.  Mr. J. H. RUMMING, Hull.  There is nothing like letting a poor man feel that  he has friends at his back, and therefore I approve of  Mr. White's scheme—supposing, of course, that it is  worked out with caution and common sense. Our  Society has Ween in existence under two years, and we  have about £16 in hand to pay fines with. The  Guardians are very slow to prosecute. They tell me it  only does our Society good, and in that respect they  speak the truth. There were 14 summoned over a  month ago under Sec. 31, and orders made, but no notice  has been taken of them. The magistrates put the costs,  about £5, upon the Guardians, which their solicitor tried  very hard to get from us, but we fought him tooth and  nail. I cross-examined the vaccination officer as to the  mode of operation at the vaccination station, and elicited  If you This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms set to work, you must not be satisfied to pay fines. You  must exhaust every means to evade them or reduce them;  and, in short, do all in your power to nullify the law,  and make of it a dead letter.  Mr. H. SEYMOUR, The Science Library, Tunbridge Wells.  T think it the best step yet taken by the party, for it  amounts to something practical. To get rid of a noxious  law, there is only one speedy way of doing it, and that  is by active resistance, rendering it obsolete. There are,  at the present time, many ridiculous laws on the Statute  Book, which could not be enforced on account of the  active resistance which, of necessity, must follow their  enforcement. There are also many anti-vaccinators  competent to make out a good case. These could be  substituted, where possible, for those who could only  make a weak defence. I should advise that solicitors  should only be engaged where absolutely necessary.  To my mind the only consideration is that of pecuniary  success—whether the enterprise would not end in the  Mr. JOSEPH SHEARD, Nottingham.  I think the London Society would do best to continue  its work on the lines hitherto followed, and reserve its  funds and influenee for special opportunițies, such as the  Norwich Inquiry, and for electoral purposes as at Ipswich.  I see these objections—First, It would be the destruction  of some local Societies by withdrawing their subscribers,  and would make the task of obtaining members in some  provincial towns more difficult than at present. Seconi,  The London Society would probably at times be repre-  sented by-those whose zeal would exceed their discretion,  who would perhaps incur needless expense, and thereby  lose the support and sympathy of the members. Third,  I think it is the business of local bodies to take action  for their own protection; and, if they cannot do this,  they will be certain to fail in other respects.  I have within the last two months formed, in connec This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms tion with our Nottingham Society, “A Mutual Aid  Auxiliary.” Any member of the Society can join by  paying an entrance-fee of 1s., and signing a pledge to  pay any sum levied upon him (being his proportion) to  defray costs and penalties. Of course I am anxious to  see how this works. We are always proud of our own  children, even if they squint. Our chief difficulty is  that the vaccination officer does not prosecute. Some  ten of us have unvaccinated children, and we are not  proceeded against.  Mr. ROBERT STOBBS, North Shields.  I am delighted with the idea of insurance against  ' vaccination, and shall gladly do all I can in favour of  the scheme.  Mr. M. W. STRANG, Glasgow.  I quite approve of the plan for insurance against  vaccination, and shall be a subscriber if carried into  effect.  Mr. GEORGE TATHAw, Mayor of Leeds.  A Co-operative Insurance Association against Vacci-  nation should, I think, be composed of those who wish  to insure themselves from the consequences of  vaccination  tion like the Employers’ Liability Insurance Association,  or Steam Users, or any other Insurance Company esta-  blished for mutual protection or benefit.  On such a basis it would, I think, be unobjectionable,  and might be productive of much good.  Mr. GEORGE TROBRIDGE, Belfast.  If a scheme for insurance against vaccination penalties  is adopted, I, for one, will gladly avail myself of this  valuable protection. From what I hear, I fancy it is  meant to leave me alone in future ; but, all the same, I  would take out a “ policy.”  Mr. GEORGE VERNEY, Kingston-on-Thames. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 34  doubt the effects would be most powerful in the magis-  trates’ chamber, and wherever compulsory vaccination  was discussed or attempted. If duly appointed, I might  collect subscriptions.  Mr. S. WHITEHEAD, Oldham.  You require my opinion about paying fines. Well,  before we commenced the practice, Mr. Harrison, Mr.  Lee, Mr. Coates, and one or two others were fined 20s.,  and 14s. costs, repeatedly ; but since the Society assumed  the burden such heavy fines, and repeated fines, have  ceased. The motive for their infliction is taken away.  Even a vindictive magistrate sees little good in fining a  Society. But, remember, we should never succeed with-  out our collectors, who go to each member's house, and  are paid 2s. in the pound. Our balance-sheet will show  you how we doit. We are nearly all poor men. The  payment of Is. entrance-fee and 6d. per month now  brings in an insurance fund of from £8 to £9 a month,  and we are steadily increasing in numbers. I believe I  was the first to suggest the plan, and was the first  collector. Tried fairly, it will succeed anywhere. I  strongly advise you to make a beginning. You will not  regret it, if only you work on simple and rational  principles, as we do.  Dr. GARTH WILKINSON. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 35  Mr. WILLIAM WHITE.  It may not be out of place if I make a few observa-  tions on the preceding correspondence.  Undue stress is laid, in some instances, on the pay-  ment of fines. If we had the purse of Fortunatus, we  might issue a proclamation that we would purchase free-  dom from vaccination for whoever desired it. We should  prove thereby that the law was at the mercy of money  —a despicable variety of legislation. My intention had,  however, a more arduous scope: Whilst I propose to  purchase freedom, it is only when freedom cannot other-  wise be had—when legal resistance is exhausted. Mr.  Brummitt relates how the mere payment of fines has  operated at Lincoln, and Mr. Gibbs cites the experience  of Lincoln to enforce his discouragement. I cite it to  repudiate such dull mechanical procedure.  Some like Mr. Mozley object to the payment of fines  under any circumstances. I should be glad to object too.  Nothing serves us better than refusal to pay, followed  by distraint or imprisonment; and such resistance it  would be the duty of the insurance committee to encour-  age, extend, and support. But how many are equal to  the contest on such terms? and for how many is it pos-  sible? A man’s wife, or his acquaintance intervene, in  spite of his wishes, and cut short the controversy by  payment of his fine and costs. Itis only a poor man soli-  tary, or with friends poor as himself, who is allowed to  endure the alternative of imprisonment.  Others object that insurance against vaccination may  be illegal. I answer,itis openly practised, and, so far as  I am aware, no magistrate has even suggested its ille-  gality. Perhaps the words,“ Insurance against Vaccina This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 36  tion,” set the reality in an alarming light, and as there  is much in words, it might be judicious to accomplish  what is intended under such a phrase as, “ The Protection  of Anti-Vaccinists.” That would surely look innocent  enough, whilst leaving the substance unaltered. I hold  with Col. Earle that the law offers us the alternatives  (1) of vaccination, (2) of fine, and (3) of distraint or im-  prisonment; and that we are completely within the law  if, refusing the first, we submit to the second or third.  I hope I do not merit Mr. Mozley’s censure, that I make  light of resistance to law ; which is, indeed, “a very seri-  ous matter to be strictly limited to the occasion that  demands it.” In an accurate sense, it is not even pro-  posed to resist the law, but to overcome law by law.  Avoiding the alternative of vaccination, we accept that  of fine or imprisonment, taking pains to reduce them  to their lowest terms, and by every art of lawful obstruc-  tion, making their exaction intolerable. Itis a course of  scrupulous legality that is recommended. We say to our  adversaries as Portia did to Shylock—  Thyself shall see the act:  For, as thou urgest justice, be assurd  Thou shalt have justice, more than thou desirest.  In operating from London as a centre, we should  most earnestly deprecate competition with local insur-  ance such as exists in Oldham, Blackburn, Nottingham,  and other places. On the contrary, country societies  should be encouraged to take the business of the insur-  ance of their members into their own hands. What we  in London have more especially to consider are the  millions among whom we live, and isolated anti-vaccinists  throughout the land, who do their battle without sym-  pathy or support, or who yield to the powerful odds set  against them in default of sympathy and support. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 87  I am persuaded that a central committee taking pro-  secutions in hand, studying the Vaccination Acts, master-  ing technicalities of procedure, organising and providing  for defence, and exposing and denouncing acts of usurp- ation and injustice on the part of the magistracy, would  soon ‚render the law too difficult and too odious for  endurance. Then the English favour and respect a fight-  ing Society that goes in to win; and we have the thought  to cħeer us, that such vaccination legislation as exists  will never be strengthened, and wherein it is broken  down, that it will never be repaired.  The Society of Friends do not vote in their assemblies.  | They refrain from action until they arrive at a perceptible  unanimity. I wish we could arrive at some such unani-  mity in this business, leaving no member dissatisfied.  There is, I perceive, a prevalent anxiety that the safety  of the London Society should not be compromised by the  insurance enterprise ; and whilst I do not share the appre-  hension, there is no reason why it should not be reckoned  with. If insurance were undertaken, it would be neces-  sary to keep separate accounts and appoint a special  committee to supervise the business—in short, to consti-  tute a secondary society. Might not the difficulty, there-  fore, be met by doing formally, what would be done  substantially, by constituting a friendly, but independent  Society for the Defence of Anti-Vacecinists, leaving the  London Society to pursue its course as hitherto ? This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 38  THE LONDON SOCIETY FOR THE ÅBOLITION OF  COMPULSORY VACCINATION.  114 Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.,  30th September, 1884.  Our friends have now the question fully before.them,  and the Executive Committee again desire to have the  benefit of the general advice. The points to which atten-  tion is specially directed are three—  1st—Is insurance against vaccination advisable ?  2nd—If advisable, should it be conducted by the Lon-  don Society ?  3rd—0Or by a separate society ?  Yours faithfully,  WILLIAM YOUNG,  Secretary.  HAy NISBET & Co., Printers, 38 Stockwell Street, Glasgow. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:16:04 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms