Disease by Law :  AN INDICTMENT OF  Compulsory Vaccination.   The Science of Medicine is founded on Conjecture and improved by Murder. - Sir Astley Cooper.  Prove all things : hold fast that which is good. - Si. Paul.  Thought from the eye closes up the undei'standing, but  thought from the understanding opens the eye. - Swecienborg.  One man, with God, makes a majority. - Old Saying.  Truth crushed to earth shall rise again ;  The eternal years of God are hers ; But Error, wounded, writhes with pain,  And dies among his worshippers. - Bryant.   To Dr. garth WILKINSON, who, many years ago, generously attended a young stranger without fee or reward, this little pamphlet is gratefully inscribed by its Author.   PRICE ONE PENNY.   E. W. ALLEN, 4 Ave IVLvria Lane.   1884.   Prejudice, which sees what it pleases, cannot see what is plain. - Aubrey De Vere.   He who knows only his own side of the case, knows little of that. - J. Stuart Mill.   The Organ of the London Society for the Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination.   Published Monthly, price Id., or Is. 6d. per annum, post free.  City Office, Mr. E. W. Allen's, 4 Ave Maria Lane.   I WOULD earnestly invite the attention of those who are concerned for the repression of wrong, and the promotion of human welfare, to the great and growing question of Vaccination. We hear on every side that we cannot be secure from smallpox unless we have our blood poisoned with cowpox in infancy, in adolescence, and at stated periods throughout life. The prescription is so unnatural, that only custom renders it tolerable ; it excites suspicion and aversion wherever rationally considered ; and dislike and disgust are justified by inquiry. smallpox is not averted by Vaccination ; and the virus introduced into the blood bears with it other diseases, even the worst of diseases, and enfeebles and predisposes the constitution to other maladies. In short, Vacci- nation, under cover of maintaining the common health, inflicts upon it serious and deadly injuries. And by a strange exercise of tyranny, this most mischievous superstition is made compulsory, and enforced by fine and imprisonment ; and Englishmen are dragged from their homes and treated as convicts because they refuse to submit their children to the abominable rite. Mr. Bright says, "The Law  IS MONSTROUS, AND OUGHT TO BE REPEALED." Yet is this  monstrous law maintained !  Possibly you are opposed to Vaccination, or indifferent, or a believer. In any case, I ask you to subscribe for the Vaccination Inquirer. If you are opposed to Vaccination, it will stimulate and inform your opposition ; if indifferent, it will remove your indifference ; if you ai'e a believer in the rite, it may convert you to a better mind.  WILLIAM YOUNG, Secretary,  114 Victoria Street, Westminster.    Disease by Law :   AN INDICTMENT OF   COMPULSORY VACCINATION.   PLAIN and unlearned man, one whom we will suppose to   be endowed with that ounce of mother-wit which is said to be worth a pound of Clergy, who wishes to obey the law of the land, and, at the same time, to live in harmony with his highest conceptions of the moral law, is apt to be perplexed, when, as may occasionally happen in his personal experience, the two things clash together. On the one hand his healthy law-abiding instinct, and long-established sentiment of respect for duly constituted authority, naturally impel him to submit quietly to a lawful yoke, however grievous to be borne ; while, on the other hand, should he seek for guidance among that multitude of counsellors in whom there is said to be wisdom, he may, unfortunately, only be still further perplexed and bewildered. In the end, it may well happen that, finding no lawful way of escape from an intolerable injustice and a legalised iniquity, he may sorrowfully feel constrained, regardless of the ulterior consequences to himself, to suffer the penalty, or the multiplied penalties, of a law-breaker rather than violate his clearest perceptions of duty and of moral justice.  And this sad alternative has, both in the past and in the present, often been forced upon men of the loftiest civic virtues, whose best feelings and enlightened reason have revolted at the hideous wrong and cruelty sanctioned by legal justice. For example, jurors have deliberately broken their solemn oaths rather than be the tools of brutalised and ignorant law-givers, and in that unsatisfactory manner have some of our great reforms in jurisprudence been accomplished! It is, however, the veriest truism, although one far too frequently forgotten by legislators and governors, that they are as powerless to alter the moral law as they are to change the laws of matter and motion. And hence in proportion as legislation proceeds in accordance with natural justice so far, and so far only, will be its effectiveness and permanence.   I   The right of resistance : past errors of Authority.   "Citizen," sternly demanded a Terrorist judge of an aged prisoner, brought before a criminal tribunal, during the great French revolution, on a charge of sending messages and money to exiled relatives, "do you know the dread penalty of the law forbidding communication with the proscribed?" "Yes !" was the undaunted answer, " and I also know of a higher law which commands me to succour my children." Just so. In the presence of the moral law Power stands abashed and rebuked. "Right," implies the right to resist ; take the right of resistance away and all other rights disappear.  If our supposititious inquirer turn to the history of legislation, to that of the law, the Church, or, above all, to that " imperfect art " the so-called " science " of medicine, he will be astounded at the mass of errors and absurdities confronting him. He will find that if, of old, Sanhedrims as well as crowds - as Dryden truly said - may be affected with the public lunacy, the same thing holds true in modern times in the seats of learning, in legislatures and in the high places of science, as well as among the "profane vulgar." He will read accounts, strange but true, of the governed teaching their governors ; of small, derided and persecuted or ostracised minorities, possessing a central truth, growing into powerful majorities ; and his reverence for authority - as such - will be seriously diminished by noting with how little wisdom the world is sometimes governed. He will also discover that, to a very large extent, fixed laws are impossible in mundane affairs ; that changing social and political conditions, fresh discoveries in the arts and sciences render necessary corresponding changes in customs, laws, and opinions. And yet he will note with surprise the almost insane desire on the part of authority for fixedness as a ruling principle in itself; while as a lover of peace and order, one question will irresistibly force itself on his attention, namely, the just limits of legislation over the individual, in matters of conscience, and in self-regarding actions.  In the past he will find that authority, in Church or State, prescribed men's religion, dress, food, fire, recreation, and that in fact their whole lives were regulated by sumptuary and ecclesiastical laws. They were considered by Power to be not intelligent rational beings, but rather as pieces of animated machinery to be, as it were, periodically wound up and set going.  "The King commands them, and the Doctor quacks them."  But amid all the degrading superstitions and manifold delirations of old, such as witchcraft, necromancy, the evil eye and the Royal "touch," all piously believed in then by "men of light and leading" as well as by the multitude, he will note that it has been reserved for this latter and more enlightened age to invent and establish the very questionable institution of a State Endowed and Orthodox  2   A State-endowed medical despotism : cowardly netospapers.   Medical Priesthood, armed with the same powers in kind, though happily not in degree, as the infamous Spanish Inquisition, or the equally infamous English Star Chamber. It is a trite but true saying that a person when in perfect health is hardly conscious of possessing separate bodily organs. So in like manner, should a good citizen be unconscious of the existence of penal laws ; and it is, indeed, the final and crucial test of the goodness or badness of any such law in the frequency with which it molests or may molest, good citizens. When this contingency often happens, that law is doomed ; and its speedy removal from the Statute Book is then desirable on every ground of public policy.  We will suppose then, what often occurs, namely, that our hypothetical inquirer has, through some Vaccination fatality in his family, had his interest in the subject of Compulsory Vaccination keenly aroused. He has determined, if possible to get at the true inwardness of the matter and to pluck out the heart of the mystery. Hitherto, like most persons, he has, as a matter of course, accepted his opinion of it from others ; and he has heard presumably well- educated people repeat, parrot-like, the fashionable or prevalent opinion of the day which stigmatises Anti-Vaccinists as being ignorant, crotchetmongers, fools, fanatics, peculiar people and what not, and he has naturally thought that some very solid basis existed for all such objurgatory verbiage.  But on looking into the matter for himself - this hocus-pocus business or medical mystery - he finds that very few indeed of those superior persons seem to have spent ten minutes in studying what they so glibly dogmatise upon. It recalls to his mind Carlyle'S bitter saying as to the intellectual quality of the thirty millions inhabiting the United Kingdom.  In looking to the Fourth Estate for light upon this subject he finds Cimmerian darkness. Speaking broadly, the newspaper press either taboos the subject, or blindly surrenders its leader columns to Medical Orthodoxy. We do not hesitate to say that this conspiracy of silence, or this one-sidedness, on the part of our so-called public instructors - on the part of "great but cowardly newspapers" - is a disgrace to journalism, inasmuch as judging from the past, the same papers, when the people have, unaided, won their battle against Compulsion, will doubtless discover as before "a great fact," and by timely and judicious "ratting," seek to preserve their justly- forfeited credit.  But, from his casual newspaper reading, he learns, from reports of inquests, that misleading medical certificates are commonly given in cases of infants who have died under the rite, in order - as the stereotyped phrase runs - "to shield Vaccination from reproach; " and his curiosity is excited as to how the statistics of the subject would come out if the whole truth were always told. He further   3   Judicial and medical ignorance and prejudice : Dr. Forsyth.   learns that, when such deaths cannot possibly be thus huddled up out of sight, all sorts of gratuitous assumptions are made to account for them, as e.g., dirty lancets, bad lymph, latent disease in the victims, and so on and so forth. He finds, moreover, fine specimens of the exercise of the judicial faculty in the cases of judges and magistrates who openly avow that they throw away, unread, Anti- Vaccinist literature, but who nevertheless have the hardihood to lecture in hortatory or minatory style, conscientious, honourable, and thoroughly informed Anti-Vaccinists when judicially before them.  As a specimen of medical orthodoxy and invincible ignorance and prejudice, he reads of a DR. Forsyth of Greenwich, when in the witness-box publicly jeering at an unchallenged Parliamentary Return on Vaccination as being " Mr. Hopwood's figures " ! !  If our inquirer look to medical orthodoxy for help he finds it "Boycotting" all opinions differing from its own. He will read how such evidence was refused in the Select Committee of 1871 ; and stippressed by the Chairman of the London Calf Lymph Conference of the British Medical Association in 1879-80. How the statistics of the London Homoepathic Hospital in Golden Square were suppressed by the Royal College of Physicians in their "Return" to the order of Parliament, although the Government Inspector, Dr. Macloughlen certified that the treatment was the most successful, and that he, although not an homcepath, would prefer it in his own case were he afflicted with Cholera.  Our plain man thus begins to think very "small beer" indeed of those legislative and medical Pastors and Masters to whom he has hitherto so ignorantly and innocently looked up, and, continuing his investigation he finds that feeling strengthened. He has been told by authority - and the accuracy of the information has been proved by innumerable fines and imprisonments ! - that Vaccination prevents smallpox ; that if it does not prevent it yet it lessens the severity of its attacks ; that Vaccination can stamp the disease out of a country ; that no one need fear any after ill-effects from it ; that, since its introduction, but comparatively few smallpox deaths have occurred - together with many other strange and foolish fables. In short he has been presented with a glowing but a perfectly illusory picture.  Within the narrow limits at our disposal we purpose to narrate a few of his discoveries, from which, among other things, it will be seen that opinions should be weighed as well as counted j and that majorities are no test of truth. And first we will take a few brief extracts from the very elaborate, bulky, and equally blundering, Parliamentary Report on Vaccination by MR. JOHN SiMON, Medical adviser to the Government, in 1857. Mr. Simon says therein, "I believe it to be utterly impossible, except under circumstances of gross punishable misconduct, for any other infection than that   4   Mr. Simon^s blunders: majorities as tests of trttth.   of cowpox to be communicated in what pretends to be the performance of Vaccination ;" and in reference to a vaccinator thus communicating syphihs, he says, it would be "a mistake (however it may have occurred) of so gross and criminal a nature that the medical profession would feel no sympathy for the person through whose neglect or incompetence it happened." And yet in spite of this curiously mixed parodox of assertion and belief the very opposite of Mr. Simon's statements is true - no human being can ascertain the purity of vaccine lymph - and yet to day the whole population are dragooned to submit to a possible "gross and criminal" operation. At this very time Dr. Robert Cory - an official successor of Mr. Simon - is a sufferer through pract ically testing in his own person, and against ample warning, the Simonian philosophy. It is on the authority of discredited blunderers such as these that Parliament has imposed a hellish yoke on this long suffering nation.  To illustrate the worthlessness of majorities as tests of truth we again quote from Mr. Simon's Report. A series of questions was officially addressed by him to several hundreds of medical men in this country and in others. One of these questions related to the alleged possibility of transmitting in Vaccination, Syphilis, Scrofula and other diseases, of course unintentionally and by means of a duly educated practitioner. To this particular c[uery about 450 said "No!" about 50 were doubtful; and less than 30 said "Yes!"  In other words about only one seventeenth of the etitire number were correct! Instead of at once repealing the law, so supine have been the public and so powerful have been the orthodox medical leaders, or misleaders, that Parliament has been still further hood-winked and the law has been made still more stringent - a fact when viewed in this light almost incredible. Parliament thus endorsed Mr. Simon's ill-founded sneer at the so-called "foolish pamphlets" of his opponents.  \yith regard to the very serious ciuestion of the transmission of various diseases by Vaccination, it may be as well to say here that Carnot, a French thinker, many years ago drew attention to the subject. He termed it a "displacement of mortality." MR. SliMON in his report thought he had demolished Carnot'S theory - one founded on close observation and acute reasoning. But the demolition was imaginary. It is now termed "vicarious mortality," which simply means the substitution of one disease for another; and the figures we now proceed to quote on the point are terrible in their grim suggestiveness.  The deaths of infants under one year in this country from syphilis increased from 255 in 1847 to 1554 in 1875. Bearing in mind the very emphatically expressed opinion on the subject by Mr. Simon and his herd of sapient followers, who, collectively, are mainly  5   CariioVs displacement theory : Vicarious mortality.   responsible for this legislation, who can adequately realise the amount of misery and domestic unhappiness wrought by them in the wrecking of happy homes through unfounded marital suspicions.  Between the 30 years 1850-80 the deaths from syphilis increased 127 per cent.; from cancer 70 per cent.; from tabes mesenterica 29 per cent.; from blood poisoning 100 per cent.; from skin diseases 109 per cent.; and from bronchitis 144 per cent. Some captious criticism has been urged against including bronchitis among the diseases likely to follow Vaccination ; but it needs no ghost from the grave nor any elaborate argument to show that the serious " constitutional disturbance " and consequent temporary enfeeble- ment of an infant through Vaccination are very likely to result, under certain given and common conditions, in its contracting that disease. Nor have those occupying the high places of medical orthodoxy been able to otherwise account for this strange and alarming increase of mortality coincident with more and morj stringent Vaccination legislation.  In default of the needed explanation we do not hesitate to stigmatise Compulsory Vaccination as DISEASE BY LAW. It is a horrible satire taken in conjunction with the persistent and laudable efforts made of late years to promote the public health, which efforts have already lowered the general death-rate and thus increased the length and happiness of human life. It is no less curious than true that periods of an increased smallpox mortality are also periods of a diminished general mortality, thus confirming Carnot'S "displacement" theory. From this it would seem that the very best which can be logically said in favour of Vaccination by its supporters is, that its effect on the total mortality of a country resembles the imaginary Irishman's lengthening of his blanket by piecing it at one end with a piece cut from the other end.  In the first smallpox epidemic subsec^uent to the Vaccination Act 1853 - in the years 1857-8-9 the deaths from that disease were 14,244; in the second epidemic 1863-4-5 they rose to 20,059; and in the third epidemic 1870-1-2 they reached 44,840, Vaccination and an increasing smallpox mortality going together hand in hand. And mark this ! Between the first and second epidemic the population increased 7 per cent.; while smallpox deaths increased nearly 50 per cent.; between the second and third epidemics population increased 10 per cent, while smallpox increased 120 per cent. Taking the two decennial periods from the passing of the compulsory law of 1853, from 1854 to '63 the smallpox deaths were 33,515 ; while from 1864 to '73 they were 70,458. In considering this enormously progressive mortality it should be borne in mind that only about 4 or 5 per cent, of the population escaped Vaccination ; and it should also be remembered that the proportion of deaths to cases (about i in 6) has substantially  6   Enormous increase in infantile moriality from inociilahle diseases.   remained constant ever since the mortality from the disease has been recorded.  In London during the i6 years immediately preceeding the Act of 1853 the total number of smallpox deaths was 16,521 ; while the number in the 16 immediate subsequent years was 12,068, the yearly fluctuations being as marked in one period as in the other. This at any rate seems like a gain from Vaccination until we look a little further, when we shall see that in the next three years, i.e., 1870-1-2 the total number of deaths from smallpox was 10,615. So much for stamping out smallpox by Vaccination - or of preventing earthquakes by patent pills ! And this experience is in strict keeping with the well-known epidemical character of the disease everywhere, and points distinctly to the inefficacy of the alleged prophylactic.  We have termed Compulsoiy Vaccination Disease by Law. Let us again see from Parliamentary documents the infantile mortality from some inoculable and cognate diseases. It appears that of infants, under one year, per million of births, there perished yearly during the following periods and from the causes stated : in 8 years 1847-54, 607 from syphilis ; in the 12 years 1855-66 the number was 1,197; in the 12 years 1867-78 it was 1,738. In the same three periods the deaths from scrofula, were 366, 607, and 892 respectively ; from tabes mesenterica the figures are 3,042, 3,313, and 4,330; from skin disease 175, 254, and 337; from bronchitis 5,196, 9,066, and 14,066. The general total average for the nine causes tabled, from whence the above figures are quoted, being for the three periods 59,900, 67,-^7'/, and 77,961 ; while from " all other causes " in those periods the totals are 96,572, 84,948, and 72,996, thus again pointing to the soundness of Carnot'S theory endorsed by some of the writers of what Mr. Simon sneeringly termed "foolish pamphlets."  So that the argument of the compulsionists utterly breaks down which seeks to justify individual risk and sacrifice for the benefit of the common weal by enforced Vaccination. The bereaved parents bending in grief over their dying child, syphilised to death by the vaccinator's lance, have not even the poor consolation of knowing that it has perished in the general interest.  "There cannot be a pinch in death more sharp than this."  In view of these figures, and in the absence of satisfactory explanation of them, we say deliberately that the retention of compulsion on the Statute Book of the Realm is a tyranny, to denounce which words sufficiently strong cannot be found.  A few more figures will show the progress of the disease in England and Wales for a series of years, before and after compulsion, sufficient to gauge the work of the prophylactic.  7   smallpox in Scotland and Ireland: Sir Lyon Play/air.   Mean annual death-rate from smallpox per million living, in England and Wales : 5 years (1838-42) 571 ; 4 years (1843-6) no returns published ; 3 years (1847-9) 303 > 5 years (1850-4) 279; 5 years (1855-9) 199; 5 years (1860-4) 190; 5 years (1865-9) 147; 5 years (1870-4) 433; 5 years (1875-9) 344- What had Vaccination to do with these results ?  But leaving England, let us cross the Tweed and glance at that " well vaccinated " country, Scotland. That distinguished political chemist, Sir Lyon Playfair, the Parliamentary mouthpiece of Scotch medical orthodoxy, said in 1870, that Compulsory Laws when properly applied, as in Scotland and Ireland, were perfectly equal to stamp the smallpox out of any country. But yet in that very year, and in that very country, Scotland, where Vacci- nation was Compulsory and "properly applied," 1 14 persons died of it, and in the 4 following years the total deaths there from the disease had risen to above 6,000 ! *  Turning to that other "well vaccinated" country, Ireland, the yearly deaths from smallpox for the 14 years 1864-77, fluctuated from only 20 to over 3,000, thus once more proving the characteristic epidemical nature of the disease. Dividing that period into two equal parts the figures stand thus; the 7 years (1864-70) deaths from smallpox 1,605,- from (1871-7) 5,616. In the year 1871 the number of births in Ireland was 151,000, while 180,000, Vaccinations were performed. In 1872 the births were 149,000, and the Vacci- nations 282,484. How many of these were re-Vaccinations is not stated. In UulDlin, in 1870, not a single death from smallpox was recorded, and it was said by SiR Lyon Playfair and others that the disease was stamped out. But in 1871, 207 deaths from that cause took place ; and next year the number was 1,350, while 2,500 cases were admitted into the hospital. So much for the prophetic inspiration of medical orthodoxy !  Probably our Playfairs and others would retort, that were it not for Vaccination the epidemic would have been far more severe. But so far as we can learn, that hypothesis is utterly untenable.  With regard to the alleged ravages of the disease in former times, the question is full of obscurity.  Referring to the average annual mortality in this country from it. Sir Lyon quoted Dr. Farr as saying that it was 3,000 per million. But DR. Pearce, seeking information on this subject interviewed Dr. Farr at Somerset House, when the latter gentleman repudiated the figures, and said that it was "a mere estimate," or a guess, adding "no statistics of the last century or the previous one are to be relied on." But Dr. Farr, writing in M'CulloCH's Statistical Account of the British Empire, says that, during the last 20 years of the 18th century the deaths in  * See Mk. Wm. Wjute's, Sir Lyon Playfair taken to Pieces and Disposed of, p. 47.  8   Dr. LeUsom''s guess : Dr. Fa7-r''s stateineni : the Franco- German War.   London from smallpox declined to an annual average of 1,740, "indicating," as he very wisely observes, "together with the diminution of fever, the general improvement in health then taking place."  Writing about 1801 DR. LettSOM had estimated the annual deaths in London from smallpox at 3,000, and it would be interesting to learn how that writer's guess was so widely wrong, according to Dr. Farr. When however we find that Lettsom, either ignorant of or ignoring the extremely sporadic character of the disease coolly assumed that his conjectural local estimate was a type of the national mortality, it is difficult to attach importance to his statements. But Sir Lyon, not to be outdone by Lettsom'S mythical statistics, drew on his own fertile imagination still further. He simply increased, from the depths of his inner consciousness, the 3,000 to 4,000 per million as the average annual deaths from smallpox in London before Vaccination, and then exulted that, in the great epidemic year 1871 it was but 2,420 per million. As, however, Dr. Farr, an authority certainly equal to SiR Lyon, has stated that it had fallen to 1,740 before the introduction of Vaccination, we must leave the reader to estimate the value of SiR Lyon's statement. Then, again, the latter stated that during the Franco-German war of 1 870-1 no fewer than 23,469 French soldiers died of smallpox ; while of the " well vaccinated " German troops, only 263 succumbed to the disease.  The first statement is a gross fable, unless all the well-ascertained ratios between cases and deaths were preternaturally suspended- a rather unlikely contingency.  According to Colin, in the French army of 170,000 besieged in Paris in 1870, there were 11,500 smallpox cases, and 1,600 deaths. At the same ratio the 23,469 deaths cited by Sir Lyon would imply an army of 2,400,000 furnishing 166,000 cases !  This gross and palpable fiction has, however, received its quietus. Careful inquiries have elicited from the French and German military authorities the fact that, during the stirring period referred to, no systematic registration of smallpox deaths obtained in either army. In a word both statements are myths. This is the kind of evidence (?) put forth by the chief parliamentary supporters of compulsion; and this is the sort of false and foolish stuff which, borne from one end of the land to the other by the daily press, the anti-vaccinists have slowly and painfully to expose. When this controversy is probed to the bottom the results are curious. The private citizen first sees that revival of the orthodox " summoner " of early times, the Vaccination officer, who delivers notice of the orthodox medical "rite," the pohceman next appears on the scene should recusancy occur; then the magistrate,- stipendiary or (Ye Gods!) the "great unpaid" takes   9   Confiict of medical opinion : the Makuna inquiry.   up the running, to use a sporting phrase; behind them is ParHament; behind Parhament are the " Departments " which initiate this sort of legislation and make it a catspaw for imposing their ephemeral medical theories on the nation ; and behind the Departments are the real wire-pullers, the SiMONS, CoRYS, Seatons, and similar discredited and mischievous blunderers. So that it has come to this - that this great nation is bound hand and foot by a little clique of medical dogmatists not a whit abler than hundreds of their professional brethren ; and whose teachings are strenuously denounced by other medicos of at least equal standing and medical reputation. They are solemnly charged by the latter with sowing disease and death broadcast among a supine and long- suffering people. And to add to the shocking farce, it is useless for a parent to produce the highest medical testimony when summoned for non-vaccination as the law, i.e., convicted blunderers such as Simon and Cory, has virtually been declared infallible.  Medical orthodoxy has just taken a rather significant step, one showing its uneasiness under the searching and destructive criticism to which it is being exposed. The Grocers' Company has offered a prize of ^i,ooo for the discovery of a method by which the vaccine contagium may be cultivated apart from the animal body - that is apart from greasy-heeled diseased horses, sickly cows, and syphilitic and scrofulous people - in some medium or media not otherwise zymotic.  That ancient High Priest of Vaccination, Mr. Simon, Drs. BuRDON Sanderson and George Buchanan, with Professor Tyndall are the adjudicators. Let us hope the prize will result in some useful discovery ; and in the meantime perhaps the Company, out of its superabundant wealth will also offer prizes for the squaring of the circle, the discovery of perpetual motion, and a mode of preserving health under conditions of dirt and intemperance !  But leaving PROFESSOR Tyndall and the 3 official and orthodox medicos, let us turn for a moment to the lately issued Transactions of the Vaccination Inquiry. (Part i.) This inquiry, set afoot by DR. Makuna and a medical committee, has resulted in 384 sets of answers being received from medical men, 102 of whom are either medical officers of health or public vaccinators - and therefore rather likely to bless than to curse the rite. In reply to the 3rd question of the series of 7. " What disease have you in your experience known to have been conveyed, occasioned, or intensified by Vaccination 10 certify to inflammation ; 19 to phlegmon ; 22 to erythema ; 24 to syphilis ; 69 to eczema ; and 122 to erysipelas ! Forty diseases in all are specifically mentioned by 242 out of a total 384 medical witnesses as having in their own experience occurred in connection with Vaccination.  10   Major Jary''s zoonderfid DICTUM : " Cooked'''' statistics.   Some of their replies as to Vaccination itself are somewhat amusing: (i) - "Arm to arm Vaccination is deteriorating, but calf lymph protection is all but complete." (2) - " When repeated operation is secured protection is efficient." (3) - "Vaccination affords temporary protection only." (4) - "The evidence is so vague and contradictory as to be at best problematical." (5) - "It protects for a limited period, but not absolutely." (6) - "It is a safeguard but not a preventive." (7) - "The protection is in direct ratio to the effect produced by Vaccination." (8)-" Protection questionable and the risk great." (9) - "It is a scientific delusion, affording no protection whatever." (10) - "It is perfect when properly done and sufficiently often," But no answer recorded by these 384 medicos reaches the sublimity of that Military medical amateur Major Jary, Chairman of the Lutterworth Petty Sessions, who from the Bench recently pronounced it " the greatest blessing God ever gave to manP  But it may be said that other countries show the great benefits of the immortal Jenner's thirty thousand pound equine and bovine mixture. Let us then glance at that well vaccinated country, Sweden, where " seven good marks " which we suppose mean marks in size between a shirt-button and a cheese-plate is "the thing." That Country also affords us an instance as to how the Simons and Playfairs prove (.?) their case. We quote from table 26 of Dr. Pearce's valuable work on vital statistics. The table ranges from 1821 to 1855. Mr. SiMON "selects" ! the nine years 1 841 -9 in order to found an argument thereon as to the efficacy of Vaccination. The lowest number of deaths in his " selected" years is 2 and the highest 341. Had he taken in the 3 preceding or the 3 succeeding years it would have destroyed his pleasant picture, the lowest number in either of those two periods being 650, and the highest 2,488. This " cooking " process has also been admirably exposed by Dr. W. J, Collins in his pamphlet "Sir Lyon Playfair's Logic." So much for professional zeal and candour in bolstering up, anyhow, a preconceived opinion. The figures quoted are those of the Swedish Government, and are very valuable as they date from 1774. Hence they tend to dispel the vulgar error as to the dreadful severity of smallpox a century ago. In Stockholm the highest number of deaths from the disease was recorded in 1874 (1,191), the next highest number being as far back as 1799 (818). In the years 1819-21-3-42-3-4-5-6 and '55 not a single smallpox death was recorded, and the numbers in the other years tabled greatly fluctuated.  The eminent Swede Siljestrom, who has paid great attention to the subject, points out that the changing of the natural condition of the blood by Vaccination must of necessity be a very hazardous thing, and he states that the skins of vaccinated   Siljestrdm^ s grave luai'nings : Sweden and Denmark.   sheep are rendered unmarketable. He shrewdly enough asks, is not there a similar danger of injuring that important organ encountered by human beings, and urges that in order to save 8 per cent, of the entire death-rate - that being the mortality in Sweden from smallpox during the 25 years preceding Vaccination - the remaining 92 per cent, of the population are liable to be, to an uncertain extent, reduced to a condition of "trash" or "refuse." He also states that, "it is an incontrovertible conclusion drawn from statistics, that the general mortality in the average is in no way affected by the greater or less mortality from smallpox. Even in the year 1778, when according to the tables the smallpox reaped its greatest harvest of human lives, the general mortality was by no means unusually high, and indeed was less than in many other years even after the introduction of Vaccination. What happens is, that other diseases take the place of the smallpox when this disappears ; a circumstance worthy of our profound attention." We quote this passage because it shows that SiLjESTROM'S conclusions confirm those of other independent thinkers, and that the medical heresy of Carnot, derided by MR. Simon and his school, is surely establishing itself as a vital truth. He concludes the little work from which we have quoted with the following pregnant questions: (i) - "Can any conscientious scientific man, after what we know, defend Vaccination?" (2) - Can any co7iscientious medical man advise Vaccination.?" (3)- "Can any conscientious father and mother of their own free choice allow their children to be vaccinated.?" (4) - "Can any conscientious government hnpose Vaccination .? " Like Siljestrom, we pause for a reply ! In such matters governments have no conscience ; they surrender themselves blindfold to SIMONS and CORYS - with what result is known. They have, as a medical writer drastically observes, "made a church out of cowdirt, the smallest and nastiest of the churches;" and its priests, endowed out of the public purse, arc empowered to compel, by fine, imprison- ment and ruin, all to come in.  Lord Bacon wrote of the "Idols of the Tribe," and Vaccination is a veritable medical Juggernaut which crushes at once its submissive devotees, and enriches the priests who serve at its altar. It is a state endowed medical orthodoxy and, as such, a guarantee for the perpetuation of medical error.  Let us now glance at Denmark, another well vaccinated country, where compulsion has been in force 70 years, and where re- Vaccination has been generally adopted since 1834. In Copenhagen the number of deaths from smallpox in the 5 years 187 1-5 was nearly equal to the total deaths therefrom in the 30 years 1841-70.  Prussia is another " well vaccinated " and " well protected " country. Since 183S Vaccination and re- Vaccination have been   Well-protected Prussia: Pa7-liament ^ s timidity: Authority the criminal.   obligatory there. No one can be admitted into a school, to any- public employment, or even allowed to marry without a certificate of Vaccination. No wonder that MR. Simon described Prussia, in 1875, as being well vaccinated. And yet in 1870, 4,200  smallpox  deaths occurred there ; and in 1871 they rose to 69,839, being equivalent to a death-rate of 2,430 per million, or very nearly twice and a half the smallpox death-rate for England in the same year. (The death-rate in England and Wales in that year from smallpox was 1,024 per million.)  During the same epidemic, taking the 3 months ending- Dec. 31, 1 87 1, and carefully comparing Berlin with London, both cities then suffering under the same epidemic, the mortality in rigorously vaccinated and re-vaccinated Berlin was relatively seven times heavier than that of London. In Berlin in 1871 the deaths from smallpox were equivalent to a death-rate of 6,150 per million.  Comment on these figures is superfluous.  Writing 13 years ago, a high medical authority said: "If a drop of seed will make a man, because it is a man's, a drop of lymph will make a gout, or a consumption, or a syphilis, because it has been trailed through systems impressed with those diseases."* And alluding to direct Vaccination from the calf he pointed out the risk of thus contracting the analogous diseases of cattle. He adds " 'Tis all pollution together ! "  It is noticeable that even Parliament recoiled from the suggestion to impose this legislation upon the people by physical force. It was evidently too risky, and might have brought down the whole craftily devised scheme with a run.  Parliament even paused when passing the C. D. Acts, the un- fortunate victims of which had to sign a "voluntary" ! submission, or endure a couple of months' imprisonment as criminals - a kind of "voluntaryism " which is rather perplexing and which would require a very subtle casuist to understand.  For our part we regret this very natural timidity of Parliament which prevented the policeman and the vaccinating functionary from tearing the infant from its mother's arms and forcibly vaccinating it. We regret it because this new priestcraft would doubtless have speedily found its Jenny Geddes, and like an older priestcraft would have collapsed also under the blows from a three legged stool, or a serviceable poker. It might indeed have become needful for life insurance offices to raise their premiums to that class of officials. But what jury would have found any other verdict than justifiable homicide where a parent had resisted to the shedding of blood, and under his own roof, so villainous an outrage ? In such cases fines, imprisonments, and other punishments are honours, and it is authority which has become the criminal.  "It is the heretic that makes the fire, not he who bums in't. " * Dk. Garth Wilkinson's smallpox and Vaccination, p. 43.  13   Summing ttp the Controversy : the Anti- Vaccinist Campaign.   The whole case may be summed up in a few leading points ; and it should be steadfastly borne in mind, (i) - That smallpox, with other zymotic diseases, gradually declined, before the discovery of Vaccination, owing to increased sanitary knowledge and attention to the laws of health. (2) - That the great majority of smallpox cases were usually of the milder and less fatal forms. (3) - That against the malignant forms Vaccination is useless. (4) - That the proportion of deaths to cases is the same now as in the pre- Vaccination period. (5) - That many deaths from that disease means fewer deaths from other diseases, the general total mortality remaining uninfluenced by smallpox epidemics. (6) - That by no hitherto discovered means can the transmission of deadly diseases in Vaccination be prevented. (7) - That the history of the medical profession is a record of erroneous opinions, and that Vaccination being rather a statistical question than a medical one - and also great medical names being on the other side - and the rite, moreover, bringing large emoluments to the profession, their opinion is deserving of no special weight.  This summarises the whole case, and we say do not take your opinions second-hand and upon trust. Look into this matter for yourselves, do not judge from Parliamentary divisions, nor from the garbled statistics, with which the official mouthpieces of compulsion are stuffed by their "coaches." As for the rank and file, probably not one in a dozen has bestowed five minutes independent study on the subject.  In this matter think of them much as a noble Law Lord is said to have estimated the rank and file of our hereditary legislators, namely, as so many "rows of cabbages."  In such questions as this our collective wisdom "parrot" their family medico, or accept unhesitatingly the dictum of the official advisers, the Simons, Corys, and their tribe.  There are symptoms that the anti-vaccinist propaganda is making its influence felt in the country. When, again and again, fifty policemen are required to assist in administering this almost sacred rite, and when recusants are dragged to prison by the dozen, the end though not perhaps immediately at hand is yet visible. There needs but unity and courage on the part of the people and this monstrous law will break under its own weight. We would earnestly hope that their united protests will be listened to by Parliament ; and that it will be wise, and be wise in time. On every ground it is desirable that this prolonged contest should be closed. It can be closed in one way only, namely by the unconditional Abolition of Compulsory Vaccination.  In controversies like this, which touch to the quick the feelings of personal responsibility, the conflict is uniformly carried beyond the bounds originally intended. Luther attacked the sale of   14   The National Health Society'' s notorious tract.   indulgences, and, as it were, knocking a hole in Tetzel's drum, stopped the iniquitous traffic. But the great German little foresaw that he would gradually become involved in a fierce struggle with the Papacy. But so it was. The small matter grew great, and the contest developed into one between authority as such and the principle of man's spiritual freedom.  Underlying this Vaccination controversy is the same principle ; and, we believe, the same spirit of liberty lives to day in England as in Germany in the time of LutHER. That the anti-vaccinists will ultimately obtain the repeal of the obnoxious penal provisions we feel assured. And we feel equally certain that in the educational process leading towards that consummation they will seriously damage and discredit the vaccine prophylactic, and prepare the way for its final downfall. And medical authority will be shaken, and in time become a ruin.   Since the foregoing pages were written, Mr, Thomas Baker of the Inner Temple has completed his very exhaustive and valuable analysis of Part I. of the "Transactions'''' of the Makuna Inquiry, One result of Mr. Baker's labours would seem to be, the collapse of that Inquiry and the non-publication of any more of the Committee's '¦'¦Transactions?'' Still more recently another epidemic of smallpox has appeared here, and a body termed, " The National Health Society," has issued, and very widely circulated, a Tract - revised and sanctioned by the Local Government Board ! "-containing some of the most remarkable " Facts " ! - and fancies - "Concerning Vaccination," ever published. Allusion IS made therein, deprecatingly, to the efforts of "misguided and imperfectly informed" anti-vaccinists, and it is stated - in capital letters - that there is NO RISK OF ANY INJURIOUS EFFECTS from Vaccination ; that THE ALLEGED INJURY ARISING FROM Vaccination is indeed disproved by all Medical Experience ; and, that before Vaccination was discovered,  THE mortality FROM smallPOX IN LONDON WAS FORTY  TIMES greater THAN IT IS NOW ! ! ! The leading news- papers have, as usual, humbly followed suit by refusing in their columns a hearing to the other side, and by carefully avoiding in their leading articles any reference to the subject of vicarious mortality; thus, in a manner, playing Hamlet with the part of the Prhice of Denmark omitted. Meanwhile,   15   " Gallant little Switzerland "; Royal College of Physicians and inoculation.   however, Dewsbury, Keighley, Norwich, and Leicester, with other places, show that the anti-compulsory crusade is making steady progress in England. Mr. P. A. Taylor, late M.P. for Leicester, may be heartily congratulated on a worthy successor, both as a legislator and anti-vaccinist, in the person of Mr. J. Allanson Picton. While abroad, it is just two years (July 30, 1882), since gallant little Switzerland in 24 of her 25 Confederated Cantons, by an overwhelming majority, abolished Compulsory Vaccination.  These facts should inspire the opponents of Compulsion with increased courage. Great is Truth, but established and endowed Error is also great, and as hard as despotism itself to overthrow. In the past, the Royal College of Physicians declared in favour of inoculation ; in the present, inoculation is a penal offence. To-day the College favours Inoculation's twin-sister. Vaccination ; to-morrow Parliament may likewise penalise Vaccination. But alas ! Parliaments and Royal Colleges are not always in the vanguard of the noble army of human progress.  "Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow."   Just Published, 6d.  TO MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT.  Forty Four Years of Registration Statistics, proving Vaccination to be both useless and dangerous.  By ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE, LL.D., F.R.G.S. Author of Contributio7ts to the Theory of Natural Selection; Land Nationalisation, its Necessity and Aims; etc., etc.   Second Edition, enlarged, 4d.  A Momentous Edncation Question for the Con- sideration of Parents and Others who desire the Well-being of the Rising Generation.  By P. A. SILJESTROM. Translated from the Swedish by Dr. Garth Wilkinson.   Just Pitilished, Second Edition, l/-  Sir Lyon Playfair Taken to Pieces and Disposed of:  Likewise Sir Charles Dilke:  BEING A DISSECTION OF THEIR SPEECHES IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS ON JUNE 19, 1883, IN DEFENCE OF COMPULSORY VACCINATION. By WILLIAM WHITE.   The Newcastle Weekly Chronicle.  Mr. White has done what has never been done before, - that is he has taken to pieces SiR Lyon Play fair's speech, analysed his arguments, and exposed much of what is untrustworthy. The book ought to be in the hands of all who . desire to understand the question of vaccination.  The Eastern Daily Press. Anti- Vaccinationists will gloat over these pages. It is said that ^jything can be done with figures. We certainly at the time thought Sir Lyon Playfair showed they were in favour of vaccination. On reading Mr. White's book we are just as keenly impressed with an opposite view. We commend the work to our readers.   The Norikamplonshire Guardian.  The official vindication of vacci- nation was contained in SiR Lyon Play fair's speech backed up by Sir Charles Dilke, and Mr. White has taken the various points of both speeches, item by item, and has replied to them with a clearness and effectiveness which must go far to shake the foundation of vaccination itself; whilst, in our view, it effectually disposes of the plea for cornptdsory vaccination.  The Truthseeker. A remarkably well-written book by a practised hand. The subject is an unlovely one, and the proverbial "both sides" have much to say; but this book ought to interest, amuse, and inform both sides. It everywhere tells of patient thought, industrious research, and a keen mind.   Jtist Published, 6d.  VACCINATION, 1883.  By ALEXANDER WHEELER, Darlington. This essay is dedicated to all those whose minds are' sufficiently loyal to Science to be free to examine without prejudice, the most prejudiced q uestion of the day. .   6d. per doz., for enclosure in letters.  THE DOCTOR'S BABY.   Now ready, new edition, 6d. per doz.  HOW BABY WAS KILLED.   Second Hundred-Thousand, with additions, -price id. CURRENT FALLACIES ABOUT VACCINATION  A LETTER TO Dr. W. B. CARPENTER, C.B. ' By P. A. TAYLOR.   E. W. Allen, 4 Ave Maria Lane.   Just Published, 1/-  COMPULSORY VACCINATION in ENGLAND  With Incidental References to Foreign States. By WILLIAM TEBB.   Not only crowds but Sanhedrims are infected with public lunacy. - Dryden.   CONTENTS.  Vaccination Results. I Vaccination in the Army.  Vaccination in the Workhouse. Vaccination in the Navy. Vaccihation in the Public Schools. Vaccination in the Prisons. Vaccination in the Post Office. Vaccination in Life Assurance. Vaccination in the Police Force. Vaccination amongst Emigrants.   Daylight, March 22. In short, Mr. Tebb places 'vacci- nation at the bai' of public opinion from eveiy conceivable point of view. In the light of the most recent statistics and by a comparison of medical authorities, vaccination is shown to be a great delusion, and compulsory vaccination an in- excusable and abominable tyranny. We heartily thank Mr. Tebb, that indefatigable and able worker, for this his latest effort.  The Dmnfries Advertiser, March 19.  Mr. Tebb shows with great fulness and considerable force what the anti-vaccinators are able to say in opposition to the rite which is usually looked upon as the ameliorator of smallpox. When the subject again comes before Parliament we trust Sir Lyon Playfair or some other member will take Mr. Tebb's statistics to pieces, for if they remain undemolished they will be certain to give a stimulus to the movement against compulsoiy vaccination.   Brighton Gtiardian, Feb. 13. Mr. William Tebb has been such a persistent and unwavering opponent of the vaccination laws that it is only needful to make mention of the fact that he has compressed his ideas and opinions into book form, for his sympathisers, at least, to have their warmest interest enlisted on his behalf Mr. Tebb has certainly framed a powerful indictment against the existing compulsory law, the result of an acquaintance with the subject stated to have been commenced by his having to undergo thirteen prosecu- tions in respedl of one child !  Brighouse News, May 31.  This is a telling, scholarly, skilful work. The author is evidently at home with the law and the literature of the subject. One side of the question could not be presented in a more attractive, reasonable and convincing way than it is in this excellent volume.   E. W. ALLEN, 4 Ave Maria Lane. 