Price Sixpence.An Account of the STATISTICS collected during the EPIDEMIC of 1872-73, by : DR. KELLER, Medical Director of the Austrian State-Railways. BY ALFRED MILNES, M.A. (LOND) DONTON : SEW, ALLEN, 4 AVE MARIA LANE. 1886. The Mitigation Theory of Vaccination. An Account of the STATISTICS collected during the EPIDEMIC of 1872-73, by DR. KELLER, Medical Director of the Austrian State-Railways. BY ALFRED MILNES, M.A. (Loup) LONDON : E. W. ALLEN, 4 AvE MARIA LANE. 1886. The Mitigation theory of Vaccination is as true of the reasoning by which the practice of Vaccination is defended as of all other matters mundane, that the old order changeth, giving place to the new. ‘That this is not in itself of any detriment to the value of Vaccination will appear to any candid minded person, who reflects that almost every scientific truth has had its history of development. Vaccination need not be valueless because its value is less than or other than its discoverer conceived it to be; any more than the earth must needs be motionless as soon as the old ideas of its motions are shown to have been erroneous. And if the medical profession is now about to subscribe, as seems probable, to new articles of vaccine belief, it will clearly become a duty to examine them on their own merits and bring them to the test of facts. MITIGATION REPLACING PROTECTION. That such a change in medical opinion with regard to Vaccination is already in progress can hardly be doubted. Whatever the cause assigned, whether degeneracy of lymph, or imperfection of the operation itself, or absence of the prophylactic power with which vaccine has so long been credited, this thing is certain, that vaccinated people do take smallpox. And since science can advance in no other way than by bringing the alterable theory into harmony with the unalterable facts as soon as the latter are ascertained, so we find the theory of Vaccination in process of change, and gažom taking the place of Zzožecźton. Thus we read in DR. Husband’s “Student's Hand-book of Forensic Medicine,” p. 559, that Vaccination “was once put forth as a perfect prophylactic to smallpox, but the repeated occurrence of epidemics of that disease has somewhat shaken the faith once reposed in it. . . . the proper view to take of Vaccination appears to be this:— that it does not prevent smallpox, but modifies its virulence.” The words we have put in italics seem to express a form of vaccine doctrine destined to be that around which both attack and defence of the practice itself will soon centre. And as a growing is ever of more importance than a decaying belief, it becomes a matter of some moment to subject this opinion to searching examination, and test it by ascertained facts. One set of such facts has been carefully collected for us by DR. LEANDER Joser KELLER, Head Physician of the Austrian State-Railways, and the present writer's purpose will be to give such an account of that Physician's work as shall make plain its bearing on the doctrine under examination. The results of his labours were recorded by DR. KELLER in two separate Reports, for the years 1872 and 1873 respectively; but as the second of these incorporates the results of the first, attention will here be directed to the second only. The conditions under which DR. KELLER carried out his observations are thus stated by himself:— ‘The Imperial Austrian State-Railway Company employs constantly about 37,000 officials, servants and workmen, who, with the addition of wives, children, pensioners, &c., represent altogether a population of 55,000 to 60,000. This population is divided among 195 railroad stations and 1r principal work-depôts, to which last appertain 92 villages, with collieries, workmen's quarters, and lands. On the railway lines 68 medical men are employed, and 12 upon the works in the mountains, the workshops, the forests and domains. The duty of all these medical men is to attend the employés of the Company and their families in all cases of illness. They keep exact records of all cases, and at the end of each month and each year send in to the Directors of the Company a full statistical report of the same, and are all under the special supervision of the Head Physician.’ The extreme value of a statistic so framed will be obvious. The reports are the work of 68 independent medical men and are welded together by a chief physician. They are therefore medical statistics, and cannot be suspected of any bias against Vaccination. Moreover the patients here observed fall within a similar range of social conditions; and thus one source of fallacy, much complained of by those opposed to Vaccination, is here removed. The comparison is not instituted between unvaccinated destitution and vaccinated ease and comfort, but between vaccinated and unvaccinated patients with a similar average of social chances in their ` favour. If such an inquiry declares in favour of Vaccination, anti-vaccinators cannot complain that its conditions are unfair. If on the other hand its decisions are against Vaccination, no adherent of the practice can protest that it is prejudiced. To understand aright the tables here given it will be necessary to note the condition of the Austrian law on the subject of Vaccination. Compulsion in Austria is indirect. That is to say, when persons are compelled to have their children vaccinated, the compulsion takes the form of enactments decreeing that no child can enter any school, and no person can receive any state appointment or state help, without bringing a certificate of successful Vaccination. This will explain DR. KELLERS assertion, that up to two years of age “there are far more unvaccinated than vaccinated children” in the population he had to investigate. Hence if amongst young children more unvaccinated than vaccinated cases are found to occur, this will be due, not necessarily to the absence of Vaccination, but simply to the fact that the great majority of the infant population is S unvaccinated. To assume the contrary would be to return from the zeezzgažton to the Ørevention theory, and would have the same effect on the argument as when a “ Fair Trader” is compelled to avow himself a Protectionist. And as the theory we are now considering is not that of prevention but of mitigation,* we need only take the cases as we find them, and by comparing the percentage of deaths to cases among the vaccinated and the unvaccinated respectively, endeavour to show how far Vaccination has exercised a mitigating influence. Now in the two years covered by the Reports there were :— Cases. Deaths. Mortality per cent. 2,627. 469. 17:85. This covers all ages and every class of patient, including the unvaccinated, the vaccinated, the revaccinated, the doubtful, and those previously attacked by smallpox. And the percentage death-rate remains %w2Z/17 a very small fraction the same as the 18 per cent. of the days before Vaccination was discovered. This persistence of * As it may happen that not every reader is acquainted with the reasons which are causing the present transition of medical opinion from a prevention to a mitigation theory, it may be well to give one sample of the evidence which is forcing on the change. It is only one fact amongst very many and is given merely as an example. In the epidemic of 1871, of patients admitted to the Highgate Smallpox Hospital, 91-5 per cent., and in 1881 nearly 96 per cent. had been vaccinated ; and this at a time when Vaccination had not been applied to more than about 90 per cent. of the population of London. Hence not only do vaccinated persons take smallpox, but the ratio of vaccinated cases to total cases is fully as large as the ratio of vaccinated population to total population. This is exclusive of very young children. PERSISTENCE. OF SMALLPOX DEATH-RATE. 9 the total percentage mortality at or very near the pre-Jennerian rate is a fact whose importance it is impossible to over-estimate. For if any figures appear to show that the vaccinated class have a less than the pre-Jennerian death-rate, whilst at the same time the total of the two classes, vaccinated and unvaccinated together, remains the same as that pre-Jennerian rate, it becomes a mere matter of arithmetic that the unvaccinated are more liable to die under the modern than they were under the pre-Jennerian treatment of the disease. And as no one supposes that such a conclusion can be true, showing as it would an actual deterioration of medical skill during the last century, it follows either that such figures must be erroneous, or that the unvaccinated have, as a class, other disadvantages in the struggle for existence apart from and having nothing to do with the fact of their non-Vaccination.* We have now to analyse these 2,627 cases with the 469 deaths. Let us first compare simply the vaccinated with the unvaccinated class. To do this we must exclude for the present—to be hereafter considered separately— * See foot-note, p. 14. to . FATALITY OF SMALLPOX, IN INFANCY. the classes of Revaccinated, Repeated smallpox, and Doubtful. This we can do in this way :— Cases. Deaths: AIL C1la5585..... u is 027 469 Revaccinated i 76 12 Repeated Smallpox ... ... ..… I3 3 DOUD e s ee 86 II Leaving total Vaccinated and Unvaccinated 2,452 443 And this again gives a total percentage mortality of 18:0 per cent., or again the practically unaltered pre-Jennerian mortality. But the crux of the question is yet to come. We have to compare in these 2,452 cases the mortality of the vaccinated with that of the unvaccinated. But we must here beware of a fruitful source of fallacy. It is known that the very young are far more likely to die of smallpox than adults in the vigour of life.* Therefore any system of comparison which should compare unvaccinated infants with vaccinated adults would obviously be misleading. Infants must be compared with infants, children * “It is remarkable how much more numerous the deaths from smallpox are during the first year of life than in any subsequent year. Not only so, but nearly as many deaths from this terrible disease occur during the first year as during the next four, and one-eighth of all the deaths from smallpox occur during the first year. I do not suppose there are so very many more cases of the disease, but the fact is #/Žey early all die, I never saw a child under one year of age recover from smallpox.”— DR, VERNON, ‘Why little Children die,” : AGE-CLASSIFICATION INDISPENSABLE. II with children, and adults with adults, if we are to arrive at any safe conclusions; in other words we must have the age-periods of the patients, or our statistics are unavailing. Now this is just what DR. KELLEer enables us to obtain, and we may thus divide our cases into groups before we finally examine the returns for the various age-periods individually. First let us compare the vaccinated and unvaccinated cases in the two great classes of (1)—infants under two years of age; and (2)— all ages above two years. The following table will give us this comparison :— mT an UNDER 2 YEARS. OVER 2 YEARS. Cases. Deaths. Deaths°/„ Cases. Deaths. Deaths °/. Vaccinated 89 49 55.06 1,570 210 13:37 Unvaccinated 278 118 42:44 515 66 12.82 This table deserves special attention. It will be necessary to repeat that up to two years of age comparatively few children are vaccinated in the population with which DR. KELLer had to deal. Therefore the excess of unvaccinated over vaccinated cases in the first class no more tells in favour of the practice of Vaccination, than the contrary excess in the second class tells against that practice. In fact, far less so, for the occurrence of these 1,570 cases 367 16? LoS 276 4S 168G 7g O, e 156 259 | 154 rs I2 VACCINATED AND UNVACCINATED INFANTS. with 210 deaths, the precise rate of mortality (13°/„) which Tissot had obtained for all ages before the publication of Jenner's “Inquiry,” is in itself a severe blow to the claims of Vaccination as yielding either immunity or mitigation. But the real teaching of this table is even more fundamental. It shows clearly that though there may be a greater number of deaths among unvaccinated than vaccinated infants, there is a smaller death-rate. And for ages above infancy the number of deaths is greater among the vacci- nated, whilst the death-rate in the two classes is so very nearly identical, —whatever shade of difference there is being against the vaccinated,— that in this class no conclusion can be drawn saye that there is here to be found no justification for the claims made on behalf of Vaccination. Nevertheless, we shall find the 118 unvaccinated deaths of infants capable of being so manipulated as to cause the totals for all ages to yield a comparison favourable in appearance to Vaccination but wholly misleading in fact. The table also bears on a plea frequently urged when smallpox follows on a Vaccination of long ago. It is said that the effect of the Vaccination has worn away, and that had the Vaccination been zecenzt it FAILURES OF RECENT VACCINATION. 13 would have conferred real safety. In reply it will be enough to say that in an infant the Vaccination if any is necessarily recent; that therefore in this table we find recorded 89 failures. of recent Vaccination, and that the recently vaccinated cases yield a mortality of 55°/„ as against the 42° unvaccinated of similar age. „ amongst the It is thus established so far as this investigation goes, both for infants and for those who have passed the age of infancy, that the unvaccinated are at least as well off as the vaccinated. For the age of infancy they are much better off, for later ages they are at least no worse. But here we arrive at the point which constitutes the special value of the investigation, from the light it throws on the comparison between vaccinated and unvaccinated smallpox mortality as instituted by most English authorities.* * For example, we find in the recently issued report for the “Western Hospital” (Metropolitan Asylums Board):— Cases of Smallpox, May 15 to December 31, 1884 ... ... 300 Deaths during the same period .….… s... 562 This is a mortality of 206%, of cases, or i higher than the average pre-Jennerian death-rate. The cases are thus classified :— Cases. Deaths. NMaccinated 232 34 Unvaccinated ... ... ... ... ... 35 14 Doubtful... ... .. 33 I4 No0 ages are given. As the epot stands it looks strongly in favour of Vaccination, so far as concerns the percentage mortality ; but Keller’s investigation enables us to see that without stating the age-periods it 14 THE ANOMALOUS TOTALS EXPLAINED. For dividing the cases above quoted into the two age-periods of (1)—infants, and (2)— not infants, we have found the unvaccinated getting the best of it in each class. Yet we shall find, if we add the two classes together, the apparent anomaly of the vaccinated getting the best of it on the total figures, thus :— ALL AGES. Đ— i N Cases. Deaths. Deaths °/, Vaccinated ... ... ..… I,659 259 15:61 Unvaccinated _ ... ...… 793 184 23:20 How comes it that the death-rate, s;za//e7 in the unvaccinated than in the vaccinated both in those under and in those over two years of age when taken separately, should be /zge7 in the two taken together? The reason is simply the large absolute number of deaths amongst unvaccinated infants, whose mortality goes to swell the death-rate of all ages. But this mortality, great as it was among the many un- vaccinated infants in the population, was greater still among the few vaccinated; thus showing that their high mortality was due, not to their want of Vaccination, but simply to their tender $ can have but little significance; whilst the unvaccinated death-rate, here stated to be so much higher than the pre-Jennerian death-rate, points irresistibly either to error in the figures themselves, or to distinct causes other than Vaccination. See p. 9. VACCINATION AND EDUCATION. I5 age, an age which gives a high mortality not only for smallpox, but for any and every acute disease. DR. KELLER has thus shown conclusively that any statistic of comparative smallpox mortality amongst vaccinated and unvaccinated, which does not take full account of age-periods, will inevitably be misleading, whatever the result to which it may seem to point. This will become all the clearer if we apply to it a simple illustration. * In Austria as with us, education as well as Vaccination is compulsory. Up to 5 years of age the children will not be at school; between the ages of 5 and 15 they will go to school. Let us compare the smallpox mortality of these two classes, taking for the purpose the totals yielded by vaccinated and unvaccinated together. We have Cases. Deaths. Deaths %, Children going to School ... ... 587 72 12:2 Children not going to School ... 733 241 32:8 Now if on the strength of finding that here the mortality amongst the untaught is more than 2; times as great as that of the taught, anyone * For the method of this illustration I am indebted to DR. A. R. WALLACE’s “ Forty-five years of Registration Statistics.” (ALLEN, 4 Ave Maria Lane.) 16 REVACCINATED AND REPEATED SMALLPOX. were to maintain that education is a prophylactic against smallpox, it would be forthwith pointed out to him that he had neglected to take account of age, and that therefore his conclusion was an absurd one. Yet it would be nêither more nor less absurd than to simply compare vaccinated and unvaccinated of all ages together in the lump, with a similar omission of any care to bring corresponding ages together. It only remains to consider what evidence DR. KELLER has to lay before us as to the mortality and incidence of smallpox among the classes previously omitted, viz., the revaccinated, repeated smallpox, and doubtful. This we shall find in the following table, which includes all the cases of every kind :— Cases. Deaths. Deaths °/. Unvaccinated ... ...…. 793 184 23:20 In a È Vaccinated... ... ..….I,659 259 15:61 Population - £ Revaccinated ... ... 76 12 15.79 i Repeated Smallpox... 13 3 23:08 o Doubtful... ... ... 86 II 12:79 Here we may note that the ‘“revaccinated” death-rate is a trifle higher than that of the simply “vaccinated” class, and considerably higher than the “doubtful” class, which enjoys the greatest immunity of all. Considering that in this revaccinated class there were no children under 4 years of age, no patients over 50 years, and only 20 cases between the ages of 4 and 20, this death-rate must be regarded as a very unfavourable one, and one which says little for the value of revaccination. The high death-rate (23:08) of smallpox after smallpox is worthy of note. We are often told that Vaccination will confer on us whatever we should obtain from having had an attack of genuine smallpox, and that we cannot expect it to do more. If so, it would seem that we can expect but little. A previous attack . certainly does not make a second any milder ; and if Vaccination only -claims to do what a previous attack does, the mitigation theory stands condemned.* The real explanation is that 2 of the 3 fatal cases in this class were over 60 years of age, and whether for the very old or for the very young, the * DR. SEATON in his Handbook of Vaccination says :—‘ HAESER states, in the authority of Regoni Stern, that at Verona, in the 10 years 1829-38, 24 cases of second smallpox had been noted, 8 of which were fatal ; and Heim reports, in the epidemics in Würtemberg, 1831-5, 57 cases of recurrent smallpox of which 16 died; and in subsequent epidemics, 86 cases, 12 of which were fatal.” ‘This gives a total of 167 cases, with 36 deaths; a mortality of 215%. It should however be added that other figures make the mortality lower than this. See some very interesting evidence on this point in the Minutes of the Select Committee on the Vaccination Acts (1867), 1871, Pp. 100, IOI. 18 COMPARATIVE SUMMARY OF CASES. prophylaxy of a prior disease, be it of vaccinia or of smallpox, obtains no recognition from relentless time. We can now proceed to examine the full details of the mortality amongst vaccinated and unvaccinated as given by DR. KELLER in the following complete tables :— VACCINATED. — UNVACCINATED. — Cases. Deaths. Deaths °/, Deaths°/, Deaths. Cases. w3 ( 1st Quarter... I I 100 66 22 33 Ru and , 6 n 69 42 30 71 E 3rd: ... 16 9 56 39 22 57 S 4th , ... 16 7 44 35 14 40 Total 1st Year ..….49 328 57 44 88 201 r to 2 Years ... 40 21I 52 39 30 77 an Ss AT 14 34 18 10 56 3» 4 » 64 I4 22 17 13 77 4» 5 ” <. 55 13 24 14 1O 73 5 » 10 „234 45 19 8 9 116 197, 15: ...189 I2 6 12 6 48 150,20 F., 275 17 6 7 3 42 29 5 39 -364 27 7 9 5 54 39 »„ 40 ) -219 33 15 16 5 32 49 5 59 = 78 14 18 17 I 6 501, 09. s.. 40 14 35 33 2 6 60), 70) ,, II 7 64 40 2 5 Total under 2 Years 89 49 55 42 IIS 278 „ OVer 2 , 1,570 2I 18'387 1282 66 3I; Grand Total. ... 1,659 259 16 23 184 793 In this table the percentage mortality is given to the nearest integer in order to avoid the complication of decimals. For a kindred reason the tables are reversed for the two classes, so as to bring together for easy reference the real subject of comparison, viz., the relative death-rate in each class. After all that has preceded few words will suffice for this most remarkable table. The returns for the first year of life are very striking, being given for each quarter of a year. Not only for the whole year but in each quarter of it, the unvaccinated death-rate is the lowest. The lesson could hardly be more clearly enforced. In matters of health and strength no more than in matters of finance can we both eat our cake and have it. If we use up vitality and resisting power in the task of throwing off an artificially induced acute specific disease, less must remain behind for the contest with natural disease, and the child falls an easier rather than a rarer prey. Moreover in this first year we. can see with peculiar clearness the influence of age upon the mortality. Omitting the single vaccinated case in the first quarter, on the principle that single cases have no statistical significance, we yet find that in both classes, vaccinated and unvaccinated, the mortality decreases with each additional 3 months’ grip of life. It would be well perhaps to notice here a piece of internal evidence in favour of the accuracy of these returns:—evidence quite independent of, though hardly necessary in presence of, the high position of their learned Editor. The smallest effort to “make out a case” against Vaccination would have made out a better case. In the age-period 10-15 the vaccinated have much the best of it, and they retain a microscopic advantage of about 1%, up to the age of 40. But here be it carefully noted that this advantage does not begin to accrue to them until the age of puberty, when, according to most modern theories of Vaccination, the protection requires renewal, having worn out with lapse of time. The decline in mortality noticed above in the successive quarters of the first year of life, continues with advancing years in both classes until in both classes it is arrested by approaching old age. Thus smallpox follows, both for vaccinated and unvaccinated persons, the general rule of human mortality from disease. To make this more clear, the mortalities in each class are less than 1°/, of the whole period in favour of the, vaccinated, the highest mortalities, at each end of life, are respectively 13°/„ and 23°/„ in favour of the unvaccinated. Thus just when Vaccination is most wanted, to save the lives most endangered, it most signally fails in its allotted task. It would seem that such evidence, so gathered by such men, if it cannot settle the question of the merits. of Vaccination, is certainly of weighty significance in respect of the maintenance of a compulsory law. It should be remembered that convictions adverse to Vaccination, so formed and capable of being so defended, are translated into action by men of irreproachable citizenship and blameless life, acting under strong intellectual conviction and a sacred sense of duty. To render such men amenable to the criminal law, and thereby to spread the irritation unfailingly engendered by the punishment of opinion which is here shown to be at least reasonably thought out and carefully maintained, is to incur a grave responsibility, and one which the prudent legislator may wisely and righteously declineMatter of Fact Chapters. ‘THOMAS CARLYLE. Mr. White is certainly an ugly customer for the doctors to meet. He does not trouble himself much about rhetoric, but -his facts are such that we really do not think he can be answered. If he merely screamed, as some of the agitators scream, we should not pay attention to him ; but he is a grave and solid eontroversialist who reasons like a mathematician. Our own opinion is that each parent should be left to decide for himself whether or no he will submit his children to inoculation. ‘The process may be a useful one as a rule; but surely if a man finds that a fine child has been smitten with erysipelas, or scrofula, or diseased glands, or with a more hideous disease still, and if he traces the affliction to foul lymph, it is monstrous to make him risk the health and happiness of the rest of his family. The woe system must, and will, be revised.— V anity Fair. thousand. Is. It is a very dainty pamphlet of two hundred pages, so printed that it is a luxury to read. ‘There are six pages of index, which will give’ some idea of its fulness of matter. Mr. White does all his work in a workmanlike way, and this work is no ẹèxception. He gives the two speeches of Playfair and Dilke in full, and fully answers them. They are literally taken to pieces and disposed of. Read William White on Playfair and Dilke. It is the end of controversy. Reply is im- possible.— Herald of Health. The official vindication of vaccination was contained in Sir Lyon Playfair’s speech backed up by Sir Charles Dilke, and Mr. We may fairly call this sturdy volume the anti-vaccinator’s bible. Itis a deter- -mined and well-informed impeachment of the vaccination theory, bristling with facts, and enlivened by the most biting sarcasm. The author has searched all nooks and crannies of the subject, analysed the figures and arguments of the upholders of  vaccination tion, and his conclusion is, that ‘‘ Vaccination is a medical monopoly, established, endowed, and enforced—a tyranny to be ðverthrown.'' —Chester Chronicle. Although this is only a matter of fact history of vaccination by a noted anti- vaccinationist, the work has been done with such consummate skill, both as to compilation and literary ability, that the book will stand comparison with the most interesting of novels.—Greenock Telegraph. 2nd edition, 6th White has taken the various points of both speeches, item by item, and has replied to them with a clearness and effectiveness which must go far to shake the foundation of vaccination itself; whilst, in our view, it effectually disposes of the plea for compulsory vaccination.— Northamptonshire Guardian. A remarkably well-written book of a practised hand. ‘The subject is an unlovely one, and the proverbial ‘both sides '' have much to say; but this book ought to interest, amuse, and inform both sides. It everywhere tells of patient thought, industrious research, and a keen mind.— The Truthseeker.  