A FEW FACTS OF RECENT OCCURRENCE, FOR THE CONSIDERATION OF LEGISLATORS, AND OTHERS, WHO UPHOLD THE USELESS, CRUEL, AND inhuman Law of Compulsory Vaccination, UNDER COVER OF WHICH, AS HAS BEEN STATED in the House of Commons, children are SLAUGHTERED BY WHOLESALE. Compiled by WILLIAM YOUNG, 77, Atlantic Road, Brixton, LONDON. 1886. The Facts standing in the following pages are susceptible of no comment which can add to their impressiveness. If it is impossible with effect to "gild refined gold, or paint the lily," so it is impossible by language to blacken murder, or to intensify the putridity of the falsehood which calls it "art of healing." We abandon the hopeless task of characterising the evils of Vaccination. The kindred of those who are murdered by it do all that can be done in that way by their simple statements. But a word may be said on the present condition of the medical mind as affected by plain evidence. The medical body is supposed to be the depository of a considerable part of human Science. Medical Science rests upon evidence, or is baseless. But in regard to Vaccination, facts of disaster are brushed aside, and the rule reigns publicly and privately that they are not to be listened to lest Vaccination should be impugned. False certificates are almost universal about obvious Vaccination murders. Is this Science, or is it Lying ? A further query occurs, what is the extent of this systematic reign of falsehood in one department ? Does it stop with Vaccination ? Or is the whole medical mind saturated with it ? Is medicine in its whole compass to be believed in any of its oaths when its falsehood is so naked here ? How can its druggings and its cuttings and maimings be imagined to be for the public good, when it is bound hand and foot in the case of the whole infancy of the world to the practises of the devil and the black masks of the Father of Lies? Its universal War on Infancy is a War on Innocence; and its own innocence, including its singleness of eye, has long ago died; it is no longer medicine, but for the most part plain destruction. From this death to uprightness come its Pasteurisms; its Vivisections; its hatred of, and disbelief in, all gentle means; its love of dominion over the State, the Church, and the conscience; its lust raging against healthy infancy and clean homes. Its nose loves the rottenness of diseases, and a pure infant is a nuisance, a pestilence and a stench to it. Of a piece with this genus of perception is all its Science; a Science of the pit. Its case is hopeless, and its doom sure. Popular ignorance and blindness, as in the case of the blind man in the Gospel, who had not sinned , nor had his parents , can have its eyes opened ; as is most evident in the following terrible pages ; and thereby the truth which is the Glory of God can be manifested. Killed by Vaccination. A few facts for the consideration of Legislators, and others, who uphold the useless, cruel, and inhuman Law of Compulsory Vaccination, under cover of which, as has been stated in the House of Commons, children are slaughtered by wholesale. HISTORY repeats itself. Writing of the plague, Dion Cassius relates : " Many died in another way, not only at Rome, but over nearly the whole Empire, through the practice of miscreants, who, by means of small poisoned needles, communicated, on being paid for it, the horrid infection so extensively, that no computation could be made of the numbers that perished." The historian of the 18th and 19th centuries will be able to describe in similar language, those miscreants, the Variolators and Vaccinators of the period, who have spread disease and death throughout the civilized world. No rational theory ever has been or can be advanced to support the ridiculous assumption that Vaccination protects from smallpox. One thing only is certain ; thousands of children are killed annually by Vaccination, or its after results, and these victims of medical ignorance and folly are the only persons of whom it can be asserted with truth that Vaccination protected them from smallpox. The highest authorities (Drs. Ballard, Wm. Farr, and Sir James Paget) have defined Vaccination respectively as the " infliction of disease, " " fortification by disease, " and the " production of a permanent morbid (though beneficial ! ) condition of the blood." The amount of damage done by the practice cannot easily be measured, but an indication is , afforded by the last three Government Annual Reports of the Causes of Death, which are recorded from the certificates of duly qualified medical men. These show that in the years 1881, 1882, and 1883, the number of children directly killed by "cowpox or Vaccination" was 178, or 1 every 6 days, and it is no exaggeration to say that for every 1 so killed, at least 100 are indirectly killed, and 1,000 seriously injured. Each case represents many days of agony and a frightful death, inflicted on helpless infants. Large as the confessed number is, it is no approach to the truth. The advice to medical men, that in case of vaccinal disasters they should falsify the death certificates "to save Vaccination from reproach," has been shamelessly published in the medical press ; and wherever independent enquiry has revealed deaths from Vaccination, it has also revealed death certificates in which all mention of Vaccination has been carefully suppressed. At Scorrier, near Redruth, on June 2nd, 1885, died Edie, daughter of Mr. Bawden of that place, aged 19 years. The young lady owed her cruel and premature death to re-vaccination, which she underwent about three months previously. Immediately after the operation her arm became dreadfully bad; her side next became affected, and she gradually sank until relieved by death. Mrs. Beaton, of West Hartlepool, writes :-"We had a fine little girl, the picture of health, who never had a day's illness. She was sixteen months' old, and had not been vaccinated-as my husband and myself did not believe in it-when we received a notice ordering us to have her vaccinated. I took her to my own doctor, Dr. Swanwick, trusting to him to do what was right. He vaccinated her on June 10th with pure calf lymph. Her arm soon became very bad, and greatly inflamed, and on June 24th she came out all over her body with an eruption from head to feet. When I found she did not get better, I sent for the doctor, who came on the 29th, and said it was German measles. I told him I thought it was blood-poisoning, but he would not hear that, although it was nothing else, for the three pocks had run into one sore, which had eaten down to the bone, and the smell from which was unbearable. On July 1st a large lump formed under the arm, the body was swollen all down the same side and much discoloured, and as hard as a stone. We applied poultices to the side, which broke on July 5th. My husband went and told the doctor, who had not been since the 1st and did not come then, saying there was nothing to be alarmed about. He came the next day, and laughed at me when I told him that my dear child was in a dangerous state, and said she would be all right in about ten days, as it took six weeks to heal after calf lymph. He never saw her again, for she died on July 10th in a state of mortification from blood-poisoning, exactly a month after Vaccination." Blind for Life. Sir,-As on more than one occasion you have published letters with reference to what medical men call the occasional " mischances " of Vaccination, perhaps you will kindly give publicity to the following case :-In Birmingham, a few weeks ago, the Vaccination of a healthy child was quickly followed by blood-poisoning in a terrible form, more than one doctor admitting it was Vaccination that had caused it; but in this case death did not-as in the other instances you have recorded-mercifully come to the poor child's rescue, but after long and fearful sufferings it recovered, utterly and hopelessly blind ! During its illness the mother-soon after the birth of a second child-took the poor little thing into her own bed, and was soon after attacked herself with blood-poisoning, of which she died. I do not say, for I do not know, that it was her child that gave her her death ; but I do say that this is far more probable than that the wretched operation that has blinded the child for life would have saved it, through life, from smallpox ! And now, when a few weeks hence the father shall be summoned for having "neglected" to have this same operation performed upon his motherless little one, at present too young for it-when he shall plead the blindness and the miserably ruined life of his first child-will that plea be held as "a reasonable excuse" for refusing, as he declares he will do, to submit his last to the vaccinator's cruel lancet ?-I am, Sir, yours, &c., S. W. Echo , May 8th, 1885. Murder by Act of Parliament. Sir, -About three weeks ago, in fulfilment of the requirements of the Vaccination Acts, a relation of mine allowed his family doctor to vaccinate his infant child with what he described as "pure calf lymph." From the time of its birth that child had never known the slightest ailment, or given its parents a moment's anxiety, but was indeed the picture of health. Within an hour of the operation it began to sicken, and in less than twenty-four hours its little body was completely covered with an eruption. The same doctor was sent for, who declared it to be a very bad case of smallpox, and proceeded at once to vaccinate the parents, elder children, and the nurse, which they, in a paroxysm of terror, permitted to be done. After a week of intense suffering the child died, not from smallpox, but from blood-poisoning through Vaccination, and the doctor knew it, although he filled in a certificate as smallpox. You will say this is a strong assertion, but I can prove its truth. He never ordered isolation of the patient; said there was no harm in the other children visiting their friends and playfellows; gave no orders for the disinfection of the house, or the destruction of clothes, and when, after a rumour had got abroad that the child's death was from Vaccination, came to the parents and begged them to say nothing about it, as it might injure him. When the mother enquired what she should say as to the cause of death, he replied 11 Oh, say congestion of the lungs, inflammation, or anything." The nurse, the undertaker, even the medical officer for the district, all concur in declaring it was not smallpox, yet as such it will appear in the Registrar-General's Report. This case is one of hundreds, it may be thousands, and yet, because I refuse to run the risk of having my child butchered in the same horrible manner, I am summoned to a police-court, and threatened with fine or imprisonment. - Yours, T. G. C. ARMSTRONG. Brockley, S.E. September 28th, 1885. ( Greenwich Deptford Observer , October 2nd, 1885.) A Clergyman's Experience. The Rev. Howard B. Finch, Ryde, writes December 4th, 1885 :-"I take the liberty of sending you a few particulars of cases which have occurred here lately of great suffering and death caused by Vaccination. " 1.-A beautiful healthy babe was taken by its reluctant mother to be vaccinated. She begged the doctor to make only one mark, but the reply was that he was obliged to make four. The child died in a few weeks in dreadful agony, its body inflamed all over, so painful to the touch, and its screams so fearful that its mother had to nurse it on a pillow. " 2.-A similar case to the above, where the child barely escaped with its life, but its sufferings were such that the father declares he will be imprisoned rather than allow another child to be vaccinated. " 3.-Another child, never well after the operation, died soon in Convulsions. "4.-Another, vaccinated from the calf, is now covered with eczema , and its life in danger. " The above mentioned cases are only a few of hundreds I have known in my experience, having had to baptize infants suffering from a foul disease imparted by Vaccination; but perfectly healthy before, according to the parents' statements." A Wise Resolve. The Rev. W. R. Bird of Leeds, writes November 23rd, 1885 :- " I have seen so many painful cases of suffering caused by Vaccination, in the course of my ministry, that no power on earth would compel my consent to my own children being submitted to such awful risks." A Voice from Kent. Mr. Frederick Smith, Upper Higham, Rochester, writes November 30th, 1885:-"My child was a fine jolly boy, six months old, when he was vaccinated on October 9th. On Friday, 16th, I took him to be inspected, when matter was taken from his arm. On the Sunday he seemed very sadly, and on Monday his body began to swell all down one side with strong inflammation, the skin being hard, scarlet, and shining like glass. Elis neck was next attacked, turning quite black, then the rest of his body, when the inflammation left him. Sores next appeared on the lower parts of the body and legs, one toe nearly rotting off. After three weeks of intense suffering, he died on November 12th, 1885. Dr. J. J. Langston, of Strood, certified that his death was due to Vaccination." Two Children Killed at Bath. The Bath Herald of November at h, 1885, reports two inquests on children who died shortly after being vaccinated. As usual in such cases, the efforts of the officials seem to have been directed rather to shield Vaccination from blame, than to elicit the true cause of death. At the first inquest, held at Corsham on November 6th, on the body of Harry Joseph Marks, aged three months, the mother deposed that her child was healthy previous to Vaccination, which was performed by Dr. Wood on October 20th. A week later matter was taken from the arm ; and subsequently blood instead of matter flowed from the punctures. Three days before its death on November 6th, the arm was much swollen and blood continued to issue from the vaccine sores, and after death the vaccinated arm and left side were much discoloured. Under the direction of the Coroner, Dr. Kemm, a partner of the vaccinator , Dr. Wood, who was of opinion that no cause could be assigned for the death ! the Jury returned a verdict of-" Found Dead in its Cradle." A verdict with which the parents were much dissatisfied, being firmly convinced that their child's death was due to Vaccination. The second inquest was held on November 9th, by the City Coroner, Mr. W. J. English, touching the death of C. J. G. Blatchley, an infant aged four months, who died suddenly on November 6th of Convulsions, four days after Vaccination. This Coroner refused to hear a Solicitor, who appeared on behalf of the parents, and the Jury on ex parte evidence, returned a verdict of- "Death from Convulsions." In this, as in the previous case, the afflicted parents attribute their loss solely to Vaccination ; believing that the fatal Convulsions were the result of the shock to the system, and pain caused by the operation. Respecting this case a Lady of Bath, writes, November at h 1885 :-"A child here was vaccinated on Monday last, being, as the father told me, perfectly well, strong and healthy. It never had a days' illness previous to Vaccination, which seemed as the father said to "stun it" for a short time, after which it commenced to cry day and night, the poor mother getting no rest ; indeed she said the day before it died she paced the room the whole night with it in her arms trying in vain to soothe it to sleep. The next day it seemed a little better, but in the evening, as the father was amusing it on his knee, it suddenly threw up its little arms and died. This is the second child the parents have had killed by Vaccination; the first, eight years ago, who after Vaccination came out all over with an eruption, and lingered in that condition for five months when it died ; and it seems very very sad that when God sent them another, eight years after, it should be taken from them in the same cruel manner." Pure Lymph from the Calf. A young couple resident in Tufnell Park, recently had their first-born carefully vaccinated with "pure lymph from the calf." Erysipelas set in, and the child died. The medical attendant {not the vaccinator) certified that the death was due (i) to cowpox and (2) to erysipelas. " - Vaccination Inquirer , December, 1885. The official reports of the State Boards of Health, United States, contain the names and addresses of many medical practitioners, who, after much experience, have been obliged to abandon the use of animal lymph on account of the resulting phlegmonous abscesses and sloughing ulcers. Dr. Hubert Boens, a short time ago, sent the details of 129 cases of injury to the Belgian Academy of Medicine, due to calf-lymph obtained from the Government depot, then presided over by Dr. Warlomont (Brussels), several Vaccinations being followed by confluent smallpox; and in the last medical census (Mr. Makuna's inquiry), of which Dr. Drysdale was chairman, competent witnesses testified from personal experience to serious and fatal consequences from its use.-Mr. Wm. Tebb, in National Reformer October 25th. Horrible Death. A short time since the firm of Duncan, Sugar Manufacturers, Victoria Docks, issued a proclamation to the effect that the employees could be vaccinated with fture lymph, from a calf which had been specially procured for the purpose. The majority of the workpeople were vaccinated, and many suffered considerably in consequence. Among those operated upon was one, Mr. Kay, the gate-keeper, a hale and hearty man, 56 years of age. The Vaccination did not "take" for a week, but when it did take the result was frightful. Mr. Kay was compelled to lay up ; his arm swelled to more than double the natural size, and whilst in extreme pain he exclaimed, "Oh ! why am I suffering all this agony?" "Because you were Vaccinated," said our informant; to which Mr. Kay replied, " I know that , and more to my sorrow." He gradually became worse ; his arm turned black; and in a few days he died. Shortly before he expired, the doctor lanced the arm, and squeezed a great quantity of blood and putrid matter from it. However, in spite of all efforts, mortification set in, and another one was added to the immensely long list of those "Killed by Vaccination." The doctor gave a certificate to the effect that Mr. Kay died from Erysipelas. When asked why he did not say "caused by Vaccination," he replied, "There is no necessity for that." Of course not; the evidence against the filthy Vaccination would have been too damning. Hundreds and thousands of deaths from Vaccination are thus smothered up by the misleading certificates of the doctors, who are so pecuniarily interested in Compulsory Vaccination. In the case above quoted, there is no getting away from the fact that Mr. Kay was a healthy man ; he was vaccinated with specially pure lymph; his arm turned rotten; and in three weeks he was dead. It requires no medical man to say from what cause he died; it is evident to everybody. So certain is one of the sons about the matter that he never speaks of his father as having died a natural death; he maintains that he was "murdered by Vaccination." This is only a single instance, but we give it because everything about the case can be verified beyond the shadow of a doubt. Here we have a robust man literally murdered; for murder it most surely was, as certain as if anyone had administered to Mr. Kay a dose of arsenic. It may be as well to say that we have the above facts in writing, with the name, dates, address, and all particulars; also that the statement was made to ourselves in presence of witnesses, who are ready to testify to the truth of same, should they be called upon to do so.- The Winnowing Breeze , October, 1885. Another Victim to Vaccination. Sir, -Another victim to Vaccination was buried yesterday at the Spring-bank Cemetery, the only child of its parents, which according to their testimony, was very healthy up to the hour of its being vaccinated. On April 15th the child was vaccinated with the so-called pure calf lymph, and expired, after intense suffering, on May 18th. The Vaccination seems to have been performed in the usual manner with three marks; and, to the credit of the medical gentleman who attended it for the last fourteen days of its existence, be it said that he gave a true certificate of the cause of death, namely-first, Vaccination ; second, erysipelas. This is nothing new, but simply goes to prove what Dr. Guy stated at the Norwich inquiry, when the following question was put to him by the barrister, Mr. Corrie Grant, "Have you any test for lymph ?" the reply was, "Only by its results." This is again verified in the present instance, as the bereaved parents can testify in their great sorrow. I do not blame the doctor who performed this operation, as he was simply carrying out the law. But it is the cruel system which entirely ignores the rights of parents, and which tramples parental love and conscience into the dust, making good health a crime by compelling parents to have their children's blood poisoned with disease under pains and penalties. How much longer is murder, according to Act of Parliament, to last ?-Yours, &c., J. H. RUMMING. Hessle Road, Hull, May 17th, 1885. Hull Express , May 19th, 1885. A Victim at Basingstoke. Mrs. Alice Wagstaffe of Chapel Street, Basingstoke, writes, March 26th, 1885 :-"My little boy was vaccinated in October last, and lingered on from then till the 18th of the present month in a dreadful state. I shall never forget as long as I live, the state my child was in for nearly five months. Two other children were done from the same child as mine ; I have seen one of them to day and it is gradually wasting away, and the other one has been covered with the same disease as mine. My boy never had a blemish on him until a week after Vaccination. I have told the doctors here that my dear child was poisoned, and they have tried to laugh it off; they won't own to it, simply because it puts money into their pockets at the cost of our dear ones lives. At times it seems more than I can bear to think that my boy was taken from me in such a cruel way; I still feel that he was murdered, and I have determined never to have another vaccinated." Testimony from Oldham. S. W. writes in the Oldham Evening Chronicle, August 17th, 1885 :-"I could give a long list of deaths from Vaccination. I will give one at Watersheddings. Vaccination was postponed for two months by a medical certificate, and should have been again postponed, but as it had to be vaccinated it was vaccinated ; sores broke out on the arm, abscess in the axilla followed, and the child died. Another in Earl Street was postponed for a month, but as it had to be done it was done. The first Vaccination did not 4 take,' so it was vaccinated again the following week. An abscess formed in the armpit, convulsions set in and it died. "A child in Huddersfield Road missed Making,' it was again vaccinated and died. I could go on thus for a long time with cases I have seen, for the thing is going on regularly." Death at Tunbridge Wells. Mary Ann Martin, Queen's Road, Crowborough, Tunbridge Wells, was vaccinated at the age of five weeks, and a second time a fortnight after, in five places by the Public Vaccinator. Although the child never had a days' illness before Vaccination, it was never well after, and died in seven days. Inflammation set in at the point of Vaccination, extended down the body and attacking the bowels caused intense suffering. Mr. Buck who saw the body 24 hours after death, describes the whole body on the vaccinated side as showing signs of mortification and discolouration down to the hip. The doctor who vaccinated it, certified the cause of death as " Bronchitis " ! Wholesale Vaccine Disaster in Germany. ' The columns of the press have lately borne witness to the high encomiums of several correspondents upon the system, pursued in Germany since 1874, for eradicating smallpox by means of re-vaccination ; though the law referred to, it should be known, did little more than reduce to uniformity the stringent practice then in vogue in the various States of the German Empire, and institute a better mode of registration. In order to determine the merits of a particular system, it is important to see that no concomitant element is overlooked, including what are euphemistically termed "accidents." A recent experience which has created a profound and painful interest throughout Germany, would show that these unqualified commendations have, to say the least, been premature. I have just received from Dr. Kohler, one of the medical advisers to the Imperial Government at Berlin, some details from his own official inquiries, concerning an occurrence due to Vaccination. On the 17th June, 1885, on the Peninsula Wittow, Isle of Riigen, seventy-nine children were vaccinated with lymph, obtained from the Royal Vaccine Institution, Stettin, and with three exceptions all were attacked in the second week after the operation with pustular eruptions. The vaccinated children communicated the infection to their parents, brothers and sisters, and the number of sufferers rose to 320 out of a population of 5,000. The disease, writes Dr. Kohler, was conveyed by the Vaccination, but according to a most searching official investigation the vaccinifers were found to be free from eruption. Dr. Kohler says no adults died, but he omits to state the number of fatalities amongst children. Stringent regulations have been enforced by order of the Government Commissioners, for keeping the infected children from school, superintending their medical treatment, and supplying deficiency in food at the expense of the State. Dr. Schwabe, of Leipsic, referring to the terrible mischief created by this serious occurrence, says : " At last, after ten years of the Imperial Law of 1874, central institutes for the regeneration of cow-lymph by means of calves have been organized by Government, because the mischief done by humanized lymph can no longer be denied. And now comes the published account of widespread disease and infection caused by vaccinating with this regenerated lymph obtained from a Royal Central Institution ! " WILLIAM TEBB. Another Victim to Jennerism. Extract from a letter of Mr. F. Scrimshaw, of Radford, to Mr. Wm. Young, 114, Victoria Street, Westminster, dated August 15th, 1882 :- "As I write these lines there lies in his coffin the infant son of Mr. Job Smith, the Nottingham Tabernacle Colporteur. This child was a handsome plump boy, four weeks ago, when he was vaccinated. From that day he has dwindled away to a mere skeleton : and he died, last Saturday, of Diarrhoea - as per medical certificate. But the parents see only two facts; he WAS well when vaccinated-he never was after; and no amount of doctor's lies or casuistry will ever in their minds, dissever the death from the Vaccination. The mother told the doctor, when about to perform the operation, that she was dead opposed to it, and propounded the following puzzle to him: ' I had two brothers, one vaccinated the other not. Both took smallpox ; the vaccinated one died, the other is alive and well to-day, how do you explain it ?' The doctor slightly coloured and said the baby was crying, they would get that vaccinated. They did, and in four weeks there is a funeral procession. The doctor gets the fee and the parents get the corpse,-What bargain can be fairer?" 