NOTES VACCINATION. DiiDirvrrt) lo Tlir Jiou I'd of (iiKi r<l in n,s fur the Vnioii of Wait ]Jroin.'Wlch, E. \V, ALLEN, 4, AvK Maria Lank. I .< SECOND AND ENLARGED EDITION. NOTES ox VACCINATION DEDICATED TO The Board of Gitardians for the Union West Bromwich, London : f), W. ALLEN, 4, Ave Maria Lane, E.C. PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. To the Members of the West Bromwich Board of Guardians, Gentlemen, We, the undersigned, defendants in the recent prosecutions taken against us by your instructions for the non-vaccination of our children, beg to submit the following remarks for your consideration, and trust the facts contained herein may at least induce you to refrain from any further prosecutions for medical heresy until the present Royal Commission has issued its report on the practice of vaccination. (Signed) WILLIAM ARNOLD, Solicitor's Clerk, Oldbury. ARTHUR T. CARR, Solicitor, Birmingham. THOMAS PROVERBS, Engineer, Langley Green. A. TROBRIDGE, Sept. 28th, i8Sg. PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. To the Members of the West Bromwich Board of Guardia7is. Gentlemen, In issuing this second and enlarged edition of " Notes on Vaccination," intended for general circulation, we beg respectfully to urge upon all Guardians the necessity of informing themselves on this question. The option clearly granted to all Boards of Guardians, as fully set forth in Section VII. of this pamphlet, renders it incumbent on all Guardians to make themselves conversant with the case against vaccination, before electing to take proceedings against defaulters. The following pages have been compiled almost exclusively from statements of eminent medical men, mostly culled from the pages of the Lancet, the Times, the Returns of the Registrar General and other official reports, free from any suspicion of bias against vaccination. We trust the following pages will prove useful to those who are unable to spare much time for the study of the subject ; and, by indicating reliable sources of information, to those who may be disposed to go more fully into the question. ( Signed ) WILLIAM ARNOLD, Solicitor, Oldbury. ARTHUR T. CARR, Solicitor, Birmingham. THOMAS PROVERBS, Engineer, Langley Green. A. TROBRIDGE, Analytical Chemist, Langley Green. July 1st, iSgo, Notes on Vaccination, I. - Vaccination is no protection from and has not caused the diminution of Smallpox. " Inoculation of cowpox does not have the least effect in "affording immunity from the analogous disease in man, syphilis, "and neither do cowpox,  horsepox , sheep-pox, cattle-plague, or " any other radically dissimilar disease, exercise any protective " power against human smallpox. Inoculation of cowpox, horse" pox, and cattle-plague have totally failed to exterminate small" pox." - Professor Crookshank, History and Pathology of Vaccination* vol i. p. 464. Vaccination was made compulsory by Act of Parliament in the year 1853. The Act was further amended and made more stringent in 1867, and again in 1871; yet each succeeding epidemic since 1853 has proved more fatal than those preceding it. Deaths from Smallpox Date. in England and Wales. I St Epidemic ... 1857-58-59 ... i4)244. 2nd " ... 1863-64-65 ... 20,059. 3rd " ... 1870-71-72 ... 44,840. The "London Medical Observer" for 1810 (vol viii.) contains particulars, including names of patients and authorities, of 535 cases of smallpox after vaccination ; and similar details of 97 fatal cases of smallpox after vaccination. London. - In the Report of the Metropolitan Asylums Board for 1887, 53,579 cases of smallpox are recorded, of which 41,061 are admitted to have occurred in vaccinated persons. In 6,652 cases particulars as to vaccination are not stated. *"History and Pathology of Vaccination, by Edgar M. Crookshank, ]M.H., Professor of Comparative Pathology in King's College, London ; 2 vols. London : H. K. Lewis, 36s. 6 Bavaria.- Out of the total 30,742 cases of smallpox occur- ring in Bavaria in 1871, 29,429 were recorded as occurring in vaccinated persons. - Encyclopiedia Britannica, part pj, /. 2g. Bromley. - In i88r there was a total of 42 cases of smallpox, including 16 confluent cases, recorded at Bromley. The whole of the 42 had been vaccinated, and three re-vaccinated. - Nicolson - Lancet, August 2'/th, 188 1. Hereford. - In the Fifteenth Report of the Medical Officer of Health for the Hereford Union, issued in 1889, 56 cases of smallpox are recorded, 54 of which are entered as occurring in the vaccinated. Of the two un-vaccinated cases, one was that of a baby two months old, who took the smallpox from its re-vaccinated father. There were three deaths, the whole of which occurred in the vaccinated. Of the 54 vaccinated cases, five were reported as having been re-vaccinated, whilst one (in the parish of Marcle) occurred in a gentleman " who had been vaccinated and re-vaccinated no less than four times, with any amount of marks therefrom." He had " a very sharp attack," and communicated the disease to four other members of his household, three of whom had been recently re-vaccinated, the fourth being a baby which had been vaccinated about twelve months previously. Preston.- In 1888, Dr. Pilkington, the Medical Officer of Health for Preston, reported 150 cases of smallpox occurring between May ist and June 7th, all of which, with the exception of one child, had been previously vaccinated. Up to August at h the cases had increased to about 700, and 47 deaths from smallpox had been returned during that time by the Registrar General. - Vide Westminster Review, Jan , i88p, p. 106. Sheffield, according to Dr. Barry, is a town in which vaccination has been most thoroughly carried out, 98 per cent, of the births being efficiently vaccinated; yet in the 1871-72 epidemic 1,007 ^<?^^//'^ from smallpox occurred, the population then being 1 240,000. In *the recent epidemic (1887-8) 7001 cases were reported, with 648 deaths in a population of 316,000. Of these 7001 cases, 5851 are admitted by Dr. Barry to have been previously vaccinated ; whilst 221 of the above cases occurred among the re-vaccinaied, and included 12 soldiers and six hospital attendants. Sunderland. - Referring to the smallpox epidemic at Sunderland, a correspondent of the Lancet for Feb. 23rd, 1884, reports 100 consecutive cases, of which 96 had been previously vaccinated. Taunton.- The Medical Officer of the Taunton Sanitary Hospital reported, in 1885, that of 171 patients in the smallpox hospital, 169 had been vaccinated, and that 24 had died. Bristol.- Muller's Orphan Homes.- The 33rd Report of this Institution records an outbreak of smallpox among the inmates in these words : - " It has pleased the Lord to lay upon us " during the last year the heavy trial of allowing the smallpox to " enter among the orphans, though every child under our care has '* been vaccinated." In all there were 293 cases and 18 deaths. Manchester.- St. Joseph's Industrial School.- In July, 1888, an outbreak of smallpox occurred amongst the inmates of the above School, which contained at that time 146 children, with sisters and attendants. The regulations of the establishment require the production of a certificate of vaccination on admission ; and the Superintendent, Mrs. Gunning, says she knows of only one exception - that of a girl entering the Institution where there was some doubt as to her vaccination. Every sister is required to be re-vaccinated on taking service in this Institution. Smallpox broke out on July 6th, the first case being that of a re-vaccinated sister, and during the same month three sisters, five attendants, and 58 children - more than one-third of the total inmates, - were removed to the Monsall Hospital suffering from the disease. - Vide The Times, August loth and 15th, 1888. il- The Medical Faculty are at hopeless variance as to the nature of vaccine, the source from whence it may be obtained, and the method of vaccinating. " We have been led to regard vaccination as inoculation of the human subject with the virus of a benign disease of the cow, whereas the viruses in use have been derived from several distinct and severe diseases in different animals.- Professor Crookshank. - History and Pathology of Vaccination, vol. i., page 4^3- The following are a few of the many sources from which vaccine is obtained : - (a) Cowpox - arising spontaneously in the cow - declared by Jenner to be non-protective against smallpox, but extensively used and propagated by Drs. Woodville and Pearson. This is the chief source of pure lymph. Cowpox is stated by Dr. Creighton and Professor Crookshank to be a disease in the cow strictly analogous to syphilis, and to occasionally give rise to symptoms in the vaccinated hardly to be distinguished from the symptoms of that terrible disease. - Vide Sfctio?i Hi. (b) Horse-grease - used cither direct from the greasy heel of a horse, or indirectly by Mr st inoculating it on the cow or on the human subject. This was the only vaccine recommended by Jenner, who described horse-grease as the genuine life-preserving fluid." (c) Smallpox Virus inoculated on the cow - declared by Dr. W. 13. Carpenter to be the only vaccine possessing a scientific basis. This smallpox lymph was largely propagated by Mr. Badcock, of Brighton, who vaccinated more than 14,000 persons with it himself, and supplied it to more than 4,000 medical practitioners. This is still the principal variety of lymph in use in Brighton, and is constantly being propagated from arm to arm throughout the country. - Vide Nineteenth Century Magazine for October, 1881, P- 552. 9 In reference to this lymph, Dr. Cameron, M.P., writing to The- Times of November 24th, 1879, says : - "N ow what I want to know is what has become of this lymph ? " My reason for asking the question is that more recent and searching experiment has demonstrated that it is not vaccine lymph at " all, but smallpox lymph, .... capable of propagating that disease in the most virulent form by infection." Dr. George Wyld, M.D., Edinburgh, in a letter to The Daily News, of Feb. 17th, i88j, endorses the infectious character of this lymph. Probably the use of this variety of " pure lymph " is responsible for the frequency with which smallpox occurs immediately after vaccination. In the late Sheffield epidemic, Dr. Barry reports. 160 cases of smallpox occurring within 14 days of vaccination or re-vaccination. (d) Cattle-plague. - Professor Crookshank remarks the close affinity of this disease to human smallpox ; and records that it has, in several instances, been used to raise stocks of vaccine, which have been propagated and passed into current use - in many cases with disastrous results. - History and Pathology of Vaccination, vol. i., p. 307 to 328, (e)  horsepox . - This source of " pure lymph " is a disease propagated by coition, and sometimes known as "pustular grease." Professor Crookshank informs us that vaccine from this unutterably disgusting source is " extensively employed " in France. - History and Pathology of Vaccination, vol. i., p. 418. (f) Tartar Emetic. - This mineral substance produces "beautifully correct " vaccine vesicles, as pointed out by Dr. Hamernik, of Prague, but has not been extensively used, probably on account of its shameless simplicity. " Liechtenstein had found that matter from the pustules, "produced by Tartar Emetic Ointment produced a disease similar lO *' to cowpox, and that persons so inoculated were not liable to the " infection of smallpox." - Lancet, Aug. 12th, 1843. III.- The Medical Faculty now admit that syphilis and other inoculable diseases are communicated by vaccination. Dr. Ballard, a Medical Officer of the Local Government Board, says : - " There are numerous cases on record to prove that " the vaccine virus and syphilitic virus may be introduced at the "same spot, by the same puncture of the vaccinating lancet." He then details several outbreaks of vaccinal syphilis, and concludes his remarks on the Rivalta series, which occurred in May and June, 1861, in these words : - "Among the 39 infected from " Chiabrera was Louisa Manzone. She was aged six months. On " the tenth day, again, she was used for the vaccination of 17 " other children, of whom seven became affected with syphilis, " suffering in the same manner as the 39 infected from Chiabrera. Two months afterwards she was taken to x^cque, and seen by Dr. " Sylventi, who recognised upon her a syphilitic eruption. . . '•' The child died in September. The nurse who suckled her got " ulcers on the breast, and from the various other children who " were syphilized, the disease spread by contagion to 18 mothers " and nurses, and to three other children." - Prize Essay " On Vaccination 1868, p. 355, ct. seq. Dr. Cameron, M.P., writing to The Times, says :- '* In " France, where the chief of the National Vaccine Service cluno- " less closely to this theory " (the impossibility of communicating syphilis) "he saw the danger much earlier, and in 1867 published "a list of upwards of 160 cases of syphilitic infection through vaccination, which had been brought under his notice in a little over a year." - The Times, December 4th, 1879. Dr. Jonathan Hutchinson, L.L.D., F.R.S., the President of the Royal College of Surgeons, a firm believer in ¦compulsory vaccination, says :- " There can be no doubt that the II danger of transmitting syphilis is a real and very important one." He further records, that, in a few years only, he came across no less than 24 cases of syphilis which had originated in vaccination. See his " Illustrations of Clinical Surgery,'" Fasciculus VL Dr. Jas. Whitehead, M.D., in the third Report of the Clinical Hospital of Manchester, records 34 cases of syphilis due to vaccination, which came under his notice in this one hospital during a period of 20 months. - Encyclopedia Britannica, part Dr. Bruclenell Carter, F.R.CS., says:- "I think that "syphilitic contamination by vaccine lymph is by no means an unusual occurrence, and that it is very generally overlooked because "people do not know either when or where to look for it, I " think that a large proportion of the cases of apparently inherited "syphilis are in reality vaccinal, and that the syphilis in these cases " does not shew itself until the age of from eight to ten years, by " which time the relation between cause and effect is apt to be lost "sight of." - Medical Examiner, iSIay 24, 1877. Dr. Charles Creighton, M.D. - a leading authority on Pathology, and an Examiner for Medical Degrees in the University of Cambridge, states that " The so-called syphilitic properties " of vaccine are not a contamination of it by another virus, bat a " revival of those inherent properties of cowpox, to which it owes "its original colloquial name of a pox." - '''' Jenner and Vaccination,^'' p. 287.* Professor Crookshank says " Cowpox is strictly analogous to syphilis Syphilis may be transmitted by '• vaccination, but many cases which are attributed to syphilis are " unquestionably the full effects of the cowpox virus ; and nothing " could more clearly point to the analogy between the two diseases " than the difficulty in diagnosing the exact nature of these vaccinal " accidents." - History and Pathology of Vaccination, vol. i., pages 460 and 462. * "Jenner and Vaccination, a strange chapter in Medical History," by Chas. Creighton, M.D. London : Swan, Sonnenschein and Co. 6s. 12 The deaths attributed to syphilis in children under one year old, per million of births per annum, have increased since the date of compulsory vaccination from 663 in 1853 to 1882 in 1886 - Vide Parliamentary Returns, No. jp2 of 1880, and No. 372 of 1888. Appended (condensed) page 1 9. IV.- Vaccination is a direct cause of injury and death. The Registrar General records 418 deaths from "Cowpox, or other effects of Vaccination," during the eight years 1881 to 1888. The London "Medical Observer" for 18 10 contains particulars of 150 cases of injury arising from vaccination, together with the addresses of ten medical men, including two Professors of Anatomy, who had suffered in their own families from vaccination. Concerning these cases. Dr. Maclean observes : - " Although *' numerous, they are few in comparison to what might be produced." Sir Joseph W. Pease, Bart, M.P., speaking in the House of Commons in 1878, said : - " The President of the Local *' Government Board cannot deny that children die under the- " operation of the Vaccination Acts in a wholesale way." Dr. Thos. Skinner, M.D., of Liverpool, referring to two deaths from vaccination, says : - " That there are many who die of " vaccination I have no doubt whatever ; that there are many "maimed for life I have no doubt ; and that scrofulous and other "forms of disease are rendered active by it. every physician in " family practice knows to be an almost everyday occurrence." Dr^ Skinner then proceeds to give particulars of a case that came within his own experience. A young lady, 15 years old, was revaccinated by himself, " with vaccine lymph as pure as any. In "eleven days after the operation this blooming girl died from " nothing more nor less than the simple operation of re-vaccination." Dr. Skinner laid the case before the Medical Institution- t3 of Liverpool, which desired "that it might not be made public.'* He states, however, that the truth compels him to proclaim it. - Vide Liverpool Post, Oct. 25th, 1876. Dr. Warren S. Stokes, M.D , of Boston, U.S , a robust man in the prime of life, was re-vaccinated on June 2nd, 1888, with " pure calf-lymph " from his own surgery ; blood poisoning supervened, from which he died on the i8th of the same month, after enduring fearful agonies. - Vide Boston Daily Globe, June 22nd, 1888. Dr. William Hitchman, for many years a Public Vaccinator at Liverpool, says : - There are hundreds killed yearly " by it ; the fact is, medical men dare not return vaccination in *' their certificates of death as the primary cause." Dr. Jonathan Hutchinson, L.L.D., F.R.S., the President of the Royal College of Surgeons, records, in the Archives of Surgery, for October, 1889, "Three fatal cases of Gangrenous Ulceration of the Arm after Vaccination." In each case the symptoms were the same, and death followed about two months after vaccination. In one of the cases '¦'¦the lymph was from a calf. " / The third case was that of Emily Maud Child, of Arthington, near Leeds, who was vaccinated on March 26th, 1889. In this case a Coroner's inquest was held, and the verdict returned was "That the deceased died from syphilis, acquired at or from vaccination." Dr. Hutchinson states " there is not the slightest " proof of syphilis in either parent," and that the two surviving children are " well-grown, rosy, and healthy looking." At Gainsborough, in 1876, eight children were killed by the effects of vaccination; at Norwich, in 1882, four children met a similar death, whilst nine were more or less seriously injured ; at Great Oornard, in November, 1883, a similar set of disasters resulted in the death of three children. These 15 deaths were certified, after official enquiries, as due to vaccination, but in only 14 one case had vaccination being mentioned in the death certificate. We may thus form some idea how very inadequately the 418 deaths returned by the Registrar General record the total fatalities from vaccination. In such cases it is the very general custom to certify death as due to some secondary cause not implicating vaccination, as is set forth more fully in the following Section V. v.- Vaccination Fatalities are very rarely recorded as such, Dr. Henry May, Health Officer to the Aston Union, in an article on Certificates of Death, says : - In certificates given " by us voluntarily it is scarcely to be expected that a medical man " will give opinions which will tell against or reflect upon himself " in any way. As instances of cases which may tell against the *' medical man himself, I will mention erysipelas arising from vaccination, and puerperal fever. A death from the first cause ' occurred not long ago in my practice, and although I had not *' vaccinated the child, yet, in my endeavour to preserve vaccination "from reproach, I omitted all mention of it in my certificate of "death." - Birmingham Medical Review January, 1874. Dr. Lankester, the Coroner for Middlesex, held an inquest on July 19th, 1869, on a child of Mr. Emery, and, on the jury bringing in a verdict "Died from erysipelas caused by vaccination," the Coroner falsified it by returning " Death from mis-adventure." Dr. R. Brudenell Carter, F.RCS., says:- "I am quite aware that there is now a sort of common consent among medical writers to gloss over the evils that may be attendant " upon vaccination for the sake of its great and manifest benefits." - Lancet^ June 13th, 1868, Dr. R. H. S. Carpenter, the Honorary Secretary of the Medical Alliance Association, investigated a vaccination fatality at Brixton, of which a false certificate had been given, and adds, - ¦ " this is by no means the first time complaint has been made to 15 " me of false certificates having been given under similar circumstances Hospital Gazette, Sept. 8th, iS88. The Editor of the Lancet, commenting on the sworn evidence of Dr. Svvanwick, of West Hartlepool, who testified, in the case of an alleged vaccination fatality, that the child died from syphilis acquired from vaccination, says : - "It is much to be regret" ted that medical men should lend themselves to the purposes "of anti-vaccination agitators." - Lancet, August 21st, 1880. For every death from vaccination there are many cases of lifelong injury, even worse than death, which are not recorded. VI.- A large and influential number of medical men have declared themselves against the practice. Dr. John Epps, twenty-five years director of the Royal Jennerian Institute, after vaccinating about 120,000 people, finally declared in 1861 : - " The vaccine virus is a poison. As such it penetrates all " organic systems, and infects them in such a way as to act " repressively on the smail-pox. It is neither antidote nor " corrigent, nor does it neutralize the smallpox, but only paralyses " the expansive power of a good constitution, so that the disease " has to fall back upon the mucous membrane. Nobody has a " right to transplant such a mischievous poison compulsorily into " the life of a child." - London Vaccine institute Report, 1863. Dr. W. J. Collins, L.R.O.P.,Edin.; M.R.O.S., England, whose son is a member of the present Royal Commission on Vaccination, stated before the select committee of 1871, that - "He " had ceased to vaccinate for ten or twelve years. He had known " persons who had been vaccinated and re-vaccinated suffer dread" fully from smallpox ; two of whom died of the most hideous "confluent form after successful vaccination and re-vaccination, " one of them three times vaccinated." i6 Dr. R. H. S. Carpenter, the Hon. Secretary of the Medical Alliance Association, in a long letter to the Hospital Gazette, of September 22nd, 1888, points out the attendant dangers of vaccination, and records several terrible disasters from the practice. He strongly condemns the compulsory infliction of an operation attended with such ghastly results. The editor, in a footnote, declares vaccination to be one of the burning questions of the day," to both sides of which the columns of the Hospital Gazette will be open. Dr. Charles Creighton, M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy in the University of Cambridge, and a man of high standing in his profession, is the author of the lengthy article on " Vaccination " in the recently issued " Encyclopaedia Britannica," which deals a severe blow to the practice in question, and marks an epoch in the vaccination controversy. This article has fairly taken the medical world by surprise, and the weighty arguments against vaccination therein have, as yet, met with no attempt at refutation. In one of the latest productions from his pen, on this subject, he says : - " Anti-vaccinists . . . have scrutinized the evidence " for and against vaccination " to some purpose ; they have mastered nearly " the whole case ; they have knocked the bottom out of a grotesque "superstition." - Je7mer and Vaccination^ page 353. Dr. Thos. Brett, M.D., London, says :-" After 50 years' " experience I arrived at the conclusion that vaccination was not " only useless as a preventive, but dangerous. I decline the risk " of vaccination, and would not vaccinate my bitterest enemy ! " Speech, April 17th, iS8j. Dr. Small, M.D., J.P., of Boston, Lincolnshire, addressing a meeting in chat town on November 17th, 1874, said, from being a vaccinator, he had, fiom his own personal experience and observation, been convinced of the terrible evils of vaccination. 17 VII -The enforcement of the Law is entirely at the option of the Guardians. Section 27 of the Vaccination Act of 1867 undoubtedly left no option to the Guardians in the matter of prosecutions, but this Section was expressly repealed by Section 17 of the Act of 187 1. By the Act of 1874, powers were vested in the Local Government Board to carry out the Vaccination Acts, and on October 3rst, 1874, the Board issued a "General Order," setting forth the duties of Guardians as to prosecutions. In reference to this " Order " the President of the Local Government Board, Mr. Ritchie, said in the House of Commons on February 17th, 1888, that it "was " not binding on Boards of Guardians ; the Order was merely a communication, and it rested entirely with Boards of Guardians '¦'¦to exercise their discretion in the matter^ Again, on July 5tli, 1888, in reference to the same subject, Mr. Ritchie said that " the " Local Government Board could not interfere in the exercise by "the Guardians of their powers," but that "they must use their " discretion in the cases that come before them." It is therefore clear that there is no law to compel the prosecution of defaulters, and that the Local Government Board have no wish or power to enforce their Order. The Guardians in a fast increasing number of Unions refuse to recognise this Order, and upwards of 40 Boards of Guardians have already exercised their powers by stopping all prosecution of medical dissenters. Among such may be mentioned : Andover, Banbury, Biggleswade, Bingley, Burnley, Blackburn, Bradford, Chesterfield, Dewsbury, Eastbourne, Falmouth, Gloucester, Halifax, Haworth, Hull, Keighley, Kettering, Leicester, Lincoln, Luton, Nelson, Norwich, Oldham, Penzance, Sleaford, Wellington, and the Metropolitan districts of Bermondsey and Rotherhite, Bethnal Green, Hackney, Islington, Mile End Old Town, and Shoreditch. is In many other Unions - Barrow, Bath, Darlington, Gateshead, North Brierley, Tunbridge Wells, &c. - the Guardians have suspended prosecutions pending the report of the Royal Commission now sitting, thus recognising the granting of this Commission as an official admission that vaccination is an open question, and admitting that those who regard it as a useless and hazardous delusion are at least entitled to the benefit of the doubt, whilst the question is sub judice. 