A WEST INDIAN COMPLAINT. LEPROSY AND VACCINATION. To the Editor of the Homeopathic World. Sir,- Since the date of my last communication, additional facts upon this subject have been brought to my notice which may not be without interest to your readers. The people of the West Indies complain, and not without reason, that since the emancipation of slavery questions of vital importance receive so little attention from the Colonial Government, and practically none at all from Parliament and the public Press in England. The British West Indies, with one and a quarter million inhabitants, comprise some of the most beautiful and densely populated islands in the world, inhabited by a people rapidly outgrowing the unfortunate conditions inherited through centuries of barbarism and debasing slavery, and steadily advancing in education and civilization. With the exception of Barbadoes, which has about 4,200 voters in a population of 180,000, and Jamaica, with a small elective element, they are without representative institutions, and are governed in London as Crown colonies by officials appointed at the Colonial Office under a traditional system, which the people believe to be inimical to all reforms. One of the paramount obligations of the Government is to promote the public health, and to protect the people from the invasion and d fortiori from the infliction of loathsome diseases. In nearly ah these islands, as well as in British Guiana, the Crown Governments are actively, though doubtless unconsciously, engaged in disseminating one of the most repulsive and incurable of human maladies, and this is carried on in defiance of public opinion, and in the teeth of overwhelming evidence of its disastrous results. As far back as 1871, Dr. Hall Bakewell, Vaccinator-General of Trinidad, testified before a Select Committee of the House of Commons that there was a very strong opinion among medical men in the West Indies that leprosy was communicated by vaccination, and he (Dr. Bakewell) had seen several cases where vaccination seemed to be the only explanation. In the leprosy report of an inquiry made by the Royal College of Physicians some years ago, evidence of a similar character was disclosed. " The increase of leprosy," said Dr. Bakewell, " being co-incident with vaccination, has made people extremely alarmed about vaccinating from those having a leprous taint." Dr. B. J. Bechtinger, who has devoted twenty-seven years to the study of this branch of dermatology, both in the East and West Indies, in South America, and the Sandwich Islands, writes, January, 1889, that he considers the serious increase of the disease to be "largely due" to its spread at the point of the lancet in vaccination. He has often been consulted by parents whose families were entirely without taint of skin disease where one of the children has been inoculated in this way. The present medical superintendent of the Leper Hospital, Mahaica, British Guiana, Dr. C. F. Castor, in his report to the Surgeon-General for 1887, says, " A most probable means of communicating leprosy is by vaccination," and adds, " It ought to be known far and wide in countries were leprosy is endemic, as with us -that there is every certainty of inoculation through vaccination ." A few days ago Dr. Robert Francis Black, a well-known practitioner at Port of Spain , Trinidad, informed me of three distinct cases of vaccino-lepra which had casually come under his own observation, and he believes such cases are far from uncommon. Being convinced of the mischiefs wrought by this system of contaminating the public health, he sent particulars of these cases in July, 1887, to the Governor, Sir William Robinson, and communicated the facts to a well-known pathologist in Scotland, with a view of bringing medical and public opinion to bear on the subject, and having the evil arrested. Dr. Black considers the law which compels such frightful risks in Trinidad, where leprosy is so decidedly on the increase, is a cruel and irreparable blunder, and the first step towards stop¬ ping the mischief is its repeal. This leprous arm to arm vaccination is extensively practised in the West Indies, the wealthy being alone able to indulge in the luxury of calf lymph, for which, in private practice, a minimum charge of from five to ten dollars is made for each operation. The vaccination law in Trinidad, unlike that of British Guiana, referred to in a previous communication, is rigorously enforced, only 7 per cent, of the surviving children, according to the Surgeon-General's report for 1888, escaping vaccination, and in no part of the West Indies is leprosy reported to be so widely diffused as in this beautiful island. I accepted the invitation of Dr. Bevan Rake, the medical superintendent, to visit the Leper Asylum, Mucurapo, near Port of Spain. The institution contains one hundred and eighty patients, admirably cared for by the Dominican Sisters, who are unceasing in their self-sacrificing efforts to mitigate the appalling misery of these most unfortunate sufferers. I will not stop to harrow the feelings of your readers by any attempt to describe the ghastly human objects I saw around me. In his report to the Surgeon-General for 1888, Dr. Rake says, " The new infirmary at the Asylum was opened in August last, and was quickly filled, nineteen patients being admitted on the 19th, and nine more on the 25th. Since then it has been constantly full." A new ward is to be built at once to contain thirty additional beds, and at the present rate of increase, much more accommodation will be needed. There are now fourteen lepers in the Colonial Hospital (Port of Spain) awaiting vacancies for admission to the Asylum. In a later report (for 1888) Dr. Rake says, " The possibility of introducing leprosy by vaccination, which has also been a good deal discussed during the year, is subsidiary to the question of contagion, i,e. the communication of leprosy by any means from one person to another." Dr. Rake does not, however, permit me to point out or furnish facts in support of the doctrine of contagion, which, if true, could, one would suppose, be readily obtained at the institution over which he so ably presides. The lady superintendent informed me that she had been at the Asylum seventeen years, and the sister who has charge of the Dispensary had been there twenty years, one of the wardsmen had been employed for thirty-three years, and some of the laundresses and nurses twelve years or more, and no case of contagion had ever been reported as far as she knew. On the 22nd of January, I visited the Lazaretto at Barbadoes, another crowded institution. A new ward is now in the course of construction to accommodate thirty-two more patients, but the applications from the single parish of St. Michael's are greater than the extra beds to be provided. I may mention that the Island of Barbadoes com¬ prises thirteen parishes, with a total population of about 180,000, of which St. Michael's contains about a sixth, and it is estimated that one hundred and fifty to two hundred more beds ought to be provided under the present system of voluntary segregation. If the segregation, which only includes the leprous poor and pauper class, were compulsory, as some now demand, the alarming spread of the disease, which is endemic in all the islands, would be still more fully exhibited. The theory of contagion has been repudiated by two independent Leprosy Committees of the Royal College of Physicians, during the past twenty years. At the Barbadoes Lazaretto I found that some of the nurses had been employed for many years (one for over twenty), and the superintendent, Mr. A. B. Winter, stated that he had never known a case of infection by contagion; nor had any of the laundry women of the establishment ever been infected. Captain Fortesque, whose duty it had been to inspect the Leper Asylum at Kaow Essequebo, for a period of six years, told me that he had never heard of a medical man, nurse, or attendant being infected by leprous contagion. The fact of the increase of this disease is beyond dispute; it is admitted everywhere, and denied by no competent observer. I have again and again been requested to call attention to it in the English Press, and, if possible, have the subject introduced in Parliament as the most likely means of arresting so terrible an evil, which has already grown to formidable dimensions. In conclusion, I may summarize the facts as follows: 1. That evidence from all authorities and in all quarters show that leprosy is seriously increasing throughout the West Indies. 2. That the theory of contagion put forward to account for this increase is untenable for want of evidence; is denied by the highest medical authorities both at home and abroad, and, if true, would only account for an infinitesimal portion of such increase. 8. That all authorities admit that leprosy may be communicated by inoculation. 4. That the only method of inoculation extensively practised is by means of arm to arm vaccination; and that leprosy has been distinctly traced to this source by many local medical practitioners, including several medical superintendents of the Leper Asylums. Yours faithfully, William Tebb. Trinidad, February 16, 1889. 