THE INCREASE OF LEPROSY IN THE WEST INDIES. To the Editor of the Homoeopathic World. Sir, - As a communication concerning the results of my inquiries into the cause of the deplorable increase of Leprosy in the West Indies, sent to one of the leading journals of Demerara, British Guiana, has been refused insertion on the ground that, in the opinion of the editor, the subject is more suitable for a medical journal; may I ask permission to lay some of the facts before your readers? In his Report for 1879, Dr. Manget, the then Surgeon-General of the Colony of British Guiana, said, " Many young children are brought to me in the incipient stages of the disease " (Leprosy), and added that the disease was spreading; and in the Surgeon-General's Report for 1887, for the same colony, Dr. C. F. Castor, Medical Super¬ intendent of the Leper Asylum, observes, " the question of segregation requires serious consideration." I hear, on all hands, that Leprosy is spreading-not only here, but all over the world very considerably. The Leper Asylums at Trinidad and Barbadoes are full, and those at Mahaica and Goreham, British Guiana, are full to overflowing, and patients are now being received in the Colonial Hospital, Georgetown, where I saw several a few days ago. These facts, however, afford no adequate criterion of the extent of this fearful encroachment; lepers, according to the testimony of several resident medical practitioners in Demerara, being now found in all grades of society. In the country districts the case is worse. Dr. J. L. Yeendam, a Government medical officer, who has resided sixteen years in the colony, and has medical charge of four sugar estates, informed me that some time ago he medically examined all the labourers on the estate, about 250 in number, most of whom are coolies, and he found about fifty more or less tainted with the disease. Dr. J. Bechtinger, of St. Thomas, D., W. I., who has devoted twenty-seven years to the study of Leprosy in the West Indies, the Sandwich Islands, India and British Guiana, says that, undoubtedly, one cause is the contaminated (syphilitic) vaccine virus imported from England, and he does not hesitate to say that Vaccination is responsible for a serious augmentation of this disease. His Excellency, the Governor of the Leeward Islands, Mr. Haynes Smith, informed me that all the facts which had come under his own observation during his long residence in Demerara, tended to show that the disease was steadily increasing, but he had come to no conclusion as to the cause of this increase. The subject is constantly referred to in the local journals, various theories are put forward to account for this increase, which is generally believed to be due to insanitation, and to the contagious character of the malady. This last view, however, is disputed by the highest medical authorities in Europe. A Committee of the Royal College of Surgeons, London, reported in 1867, that "The unanimous conviction of the most experienced observers in different parts of the world is quite opposed to the belief that Leprosy is contagious." My inquiries in the Virgin Islands, in many of the Leeward and Windward Islands, and in British Guiana, have failed to hear of a single case of a nurse or medical attendant having caught the disease in this way. There must be other causes for this increase, and the evidence points, to the conclusion that one cause is Vaccination. During a visit up the River Essequebo, the British Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, Mr. Michael McTurk, of Kalacoon, a man of keen powers of observation, told me he knew for a fact that Leprosy was communicated by Vaccination. He was intimately acquainted with a healthy family, in which one of the children was infected with Leprosy by vaccine virus from a leprous child. The unfortunate victim was isolated in a small building in the garden of its. parent's house, and after some years of suffering succumbed to this hideous malady. As an explorer, Mr. McTurk had been much amongst the Indians, all his servants and boatmen belonging to that race, and he had never known nor heard of a case of Leprosy amongst them. This was confirmed by Mr. John Bracey, of Bartica Grove, an Indian, trader of twenty-nine years' experience amongst the Macousi and Wapisiana tribes; and by the Rev. J. Keelan, the missionary to this Indian settlement. No Lidian in the wilderness will allow himself or his children to be vaccinated, and their immunity from Leprosy is attributed to this circumstance. Dr. John D. Hills, F.R.C.S., formerly the Medical Superintendent-General of the Leper Asylum, Mahaica, British Guiana, in his work on "Leprosy in British Guiana" (1881), observes, "With regard to this country, one important fact is the immunity from Leprosy 'enjoyed by the aboriginal tribes of British Guiana, a fact also noticed by Dr. Gavin Milroy, in his " Leprosy in the West Indies, 1 " 1873. Dr. Hillis quotes several cases of Leprosy communicated by Vaccination, and says, "I have already given some cases in which there could be no reasonable doubt but that the disease was produced by vaccination with tainted lymph, .... and we have the testimony in favour of this mode of propagation from such men as Tilbury, Fox, and Erasmus Wilson." Dr. Ferguson, of the Colonial Hospital, Georgetown, admitted the serious increase of Leprosy in the colony, and when I ventured to suggest Vaccination as a probable cause said, he did not see how that could be in Demerara, as so great was the parental dread of its infliction (leprosy) that, in spite of a stringent law, not more than a fourth of the children were vaccinated. As this repugnance is all but general, the argument clearly points in the opposite direction. Space would not allow me to detail a tithe of the cases of unvaccinated leprosy, reported by persons in all conditions of life, including members of the legislature, and medical men whose families or friends have suffered by the distressing malady induced at the point of the lancet. Unfortunately nothing is being done in the colonies to arrest this particular source of mischief to the public health, which must be my justification for asking you to insert this communication. In Dr. Charles Creighton's remarkable article on Vaccination, in the final volume of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, several diseases are specified as communicable with the vaccine virus, but leprosy is not included. A competent and impartial investigation would not fail to discover that this most terrible of all diseases is systematically, and it may be extensively disseminated in this way.-Yours faithfully, William Tebb. Tower Hotel, Georgetown, Demerara, British Guiana, January 19, 1889. P.S.-The largest percentage of lepers to population, according to Dr. Bechtinger, is to be found in the Sandwich Islands, which is estimated as high as 10 per cent. This disease was unknown in these islands previous to the introduction of Vaccination. 