The Question of   COMPULSORY  VACCINATION,  ILLUSTRATED BY  FIFTY-SIX UNPUBLISHED CASES OF  ILLNESS AND DEATH.  BY  CHARLES FOX,  M.R.C.S. Eng.  “If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and ready to be slain; if thou  sayest, Behold, we knew it not; doth not He that pondereth the heart consider it ? . . . and  shall not He render to every man according to his works ?”—PRrovERBs XXIV. 11, 12.  LONDON : E. W. ALLEN, 4 AVE MARIA LANE, E.C.  CARDIFF: W. JONES, DUKE STREET.  1890. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms To the   LEGISLATORS  of my  COUNTRY  I Address this small Contribution,  from the Scientific and Legal  Standpoints, to the solution of  one of the gravest “problems ”  of this age.  CARDIFF.  11źŽ of 4th Month, 1890. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms CONTENTS.   CHAPTER 1I.—ABUSES FOLLOWING THE PRESENT SYSTEM OF COMPULSORY VACCINATION ...….....….  CHAPTER II—CASES OF INJURY AND DEATH AFTER VACCINATION sses sesesaerereae essere  CHAPTER III.—REMARKS AND STATISTICS UPON THE FOREGOING CASES.. as  CHAPTER IV.—THE OPERATION OF THE VACCINAL VIRUS INJURIOUSLY seee  PAGE  15  33 This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms ZAE OUES TION OF   Compulsory Vaccination.  CHAPTER |.  ABUSES FOLLOWING m PRESENT SYSTEM  or COMPULSORY. VACCINATION.  NDER this head some of the sad anomalies occasioned by a law  which violates the feelings of the masses—whether approving Vacci-  nation or not—and increases every day the disapprobation and suspicion  of what is thus enforced may be pointed out. We may thus see clearly  how it works, and whether the arrangements now in operation are the best.  I. To speak first of the Zega! aspect or department. First, it should be  well recognized that a false appearance of satisfaction with the law and  practice is given to an amazing extent, and I venture to say that were the  real convictions and wishes of the people reflected in their action, or did  they act upon these, but little Vaccination comparatively would have to  be done. But far from this, the poor—with whom the objection to it  mostly lies—in a very small percentage of cases of dissatisfaction show  their feeling, but, on the contrary, by going to have Vaccination performed  give it to be supposed that they agree. Those who are “behind the  scenes” and visit them freely, know ž/łe zmøzØression given is almost always  false. This sad unfaithfulness to their earnest convictions (for it is no  mere sentiment in this matter), is partly due to the sad want of moral  courage, or of willingness to sz;/zz for one’s belief, and partly to the  difficulty they are in, when to do so means ruin either partial or complete.  What are they to do? There is (1st) the 27204 of the fine; (2nd) the  cruel menace of a repetition of a punishment once given for the same  offence—an act of barbarity in a free country’s laws, and foreign to the  genius of this land; and (3rd) imprisonment as substitute, which means  the ruin of the little family. But the rich, when they refuse, need not go  to prison, and will not feel the fine—while they have been known to  escape this, and also to have a lighter one than is inflicted on the poor!  To justify the above inference I must refer to my own experience. This  is such that I can say, that for severa? years I believe zo one kas asked  B This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 6 Abuses following the Present   me to Vaccinate an infant but would gladly have seen a way to avoid  having it done, nor do I ever scarcely meet with a person among the  poor who believes in it. My method, when a mother brings her baby for  this purpose, is to ask her first if she really zwzs/Žes it should be Vaccinated.  She replies, “No.” “Why, then,” I ask, “dost thou come to have it  done?” “Because I zzzs/” she says. And then perhaps she tells me  how she has done all she can, short of suffering and fine, to avoid it;  and, indeed, I have noticed in the Police Court how many delay as long  as possible, and do not bring their infants until they have been warned  and enjoined. This plainly indicates that they would not at all but for  force—that element so incongruous with the institutions of this country,  where all the /oz7s of Liberty still remain. Shall I be blamed, when the  need is come, if, a descendant of those barons who won Magna Charta, I  plead for the blessing itself ere we be quite imperialized by our immense  officialism and enslaved by fear? Where the husband is not only con-  scientiously uneasy to have Vaccination performed on his own God-given  charge, but firm enough to resist, I find the wife is usually afraid; and  when a wife is brave, lo! the husband is unwilling to risk trouble too  ċommonly, so that it is done.—I do not vaccinate now.  Thus the impression is given that the majority approve the law, when  more probably the majority does not.  The officers who have to enforce it seem to aim to call on the woman,  and certainly use subtle suasion to disarm her resolves, and so Adam  is again taken through Eve in’ unfaithfulness to what they feel.  But how remarkable is it that the very officers who conduct these cases  are not always Vaccinationists; and one who was closely questioned by  a man he called on, showed that his only ground for submission to the  law was that it was the law, and were it not he might think the practice  objectionable ! Such obedience is brutish and yain.  It is a mistake to call it g7až/zs when salaries have to be paid officials  from the rates.  It may be well to digress to ask why it is among the poor chiefly there  is opposition — why the educated classes support Vaccination so largely  as they do. This is usually answered triumphantly for that cause, by  saying that it shows that the objection is due only to Ignorance, that  knowledge and judgment approve the practice and, hence, that it requires  only more time and teaching. to cause it to be received by all. But it so  happens all we hear evidences that the teaching given is of the evz/s often  due to Vaccination, and that it is the upper classes who are being con-  verted and not the poor. Thus, time is deciding, indeed; but not as it was  thought that it would.  This, which I think is the inevitable conclusion to which current history  points, seems to invalidate the answer to the weighty problem stated above.  If, then, we must look for another answer, here is one, which I submit is  the true one. (1) The poor, who are inimitable gossips, when they hear of  cases of harm from Vaccination, not only spread it, but have little besides This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms System of Compulsory Vaccination. 7   their own judgment on it on which to proceed. If a doctor tries to explain  them otherwise, it is not only but one as it were to a thousand, but his in-  terpretation is taken with secret or open mistrust. (2) Again, these unhappy  cases occur far oftenest among the poor—on many accounts,—and are  sure to be quite exceptional among the well-to-do.  These last, then, (3) see very few instances amongst them of illness and  death after Vaccination ; and, as to the numbers carried up and down in  low streets and alleys, they know little, or—if knowing—do not believe.  But the great reason probably of their acceptance of the practice is (4) their  opportunity of hearing doctors thereon. For, when a mother in the upper  ranks feels a doubt and fear upon Vaccination, she states it to her friend the  Family Doctor, who, of course, soon and easily satisfies her mind. I am  vividly reminded of some priesthoods which succeed in silencing scrupu-  lousness by mere authority, and so assuring weak faiths.  The result of compliance against conscience in such numbers is all kinds  of evasions. Unjust laws always engender deceits, as well as resentments ;  and that which is not according to the people’s feelings is unjust. Here  a great evil is produced by Legislation, viz.: the destruction of the public  conscience, and obedience. is rendered not willingly, but from fear. In a  free State it is freely rendered, not from dread of punishment merely; but,  when otherwise, this is tyranny. Let men’s minds be convinced—which  force never accomplishes. This is the aim of wise legislators. Then a  true good will be sure of adoption—more sure than by every Compulsion  short of this. Indeed, it should be remembered that men will find means  to evade this always, as may be shown.  The following subterfuges have fallen under my its and show the  way the Law felt to be oppressive is eluded, and thus how the majesty of  Legislation is degraded on its account. 1. Mothers will suck the virus out  directly they leave the Vaccination office; a neighbour testifies to having  often seen them doing this, and spitting it out on the steps. And in one  case of three trials one was defeated thus. She says many do it. Shalla  policeman guard them home? This leads to a corollary. I have often  suspected it as the cause of some of my failures when I used to vaccinate—  these having been very frequent in /aźe yeazs. 2. Similarly, a mother will  wipe out the lymph with her handkerchief, as I have known. 3. A person  known to me removed the virus by a poultice on getting Žoze. 4. One  told me she saved one of her children from being vaccinated ðy és beug  a twin and I suppose overlooked.  5. Another stratagem made use of is to register births under a false  name and address! This is, probably, easy to do, and difficult to discover  or to prevent. In one street here, I am told, no less than five have re-  sorted to it (successfully) to avoid Vaccination.  ‘These things show how strong the feeling and resolution of the masses  are on the question. One poor man very lately was granted the benefit  of the clause as to a “reasonable excuse,” on account of the death of one  (Case LII), and the permanent injury of another of his children (LI) This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 8 Abuses following the Present   after Vaccination ; but his privilege was quickly rescinded; so that he  is now threatened for another child, and says he will resist though he  have summonses enough to reach to town—a mile or more off. Who can  wonder at or blame this true Briton? He has but three children living  out of five, and one is unfit for work. Has not the relentless Law of  our “paternal” Government crippled this father enough? And now he  must, doubtless, go to jail under its curse! And, yet, Benches and  Boards have no small power of discretion, or mercy, were it used more  generally ; so that it is not all the fault of the Laws.  The last abuse of the present system to be mentioned is a very grave one  —the Suppression of facts by intimidation and prejudice. No honest man  or party will be afraid of truth ; and if the cause is felt to be irrefragable  there is no fear for its fall. Such a policy is as unworthy of a learned  profession as of a legislative power, and does not tend to the conversion  of the refractory or bespeak a scientific zeal.  The disposition I have spoken of was discovered in the remark one of  the sufferers’ mothers made to me, that she would have taken her baby to  show to the doctor but that he was “so disagreeable to people who did.”  One case that died, so far as I could see, in evident connection with  Vaccination (likely enough in a weak infant of less than half a year), I  felt it my duty to certify accordingly (Case VIII). But I never heard that  any notice was taken of that certificate.  A different result followed another case (No. VII), in which it appeared  needful to mention Vaccination on the certificate. Here it led to rather  harsh comments in various papers, both general and medical, which I  only learned after some time and which are referred to later on.  In another case (not of death) here given, it was reported to have been  told the poor mother that she ought to have some trouble over it, and  should have brought her child before the Magistrates, for being freed from  going to show the arm by my certificate. The child nearly died, and I  had to prevent this; but, indeed, zZ woud žave been well for the cause  in a very different way /ad ske had to go before the Bench and show it;  for the ill effects of Vaccination would have been seen.  In one of the saddest of the cases here given grievous intimidation was  used to the poor parents. One of those most concerned shut the door  finally in the mother’s face, and libelled her virtuous character. Any ex-  planation was attempted and proffered (as in many others), and she  was bade to be quiet; nay, a high functionary told her, “Zf you say i  was caused by Vaccination, Pll punish you,” and threatened to begin  the process himself. Is this Charity, Justice, or Zazw 2 Alas! Christianity  is laid claim to while the poor sufferers are thus addressed who must fight  dependent and singlehanded, and whose cry is unheard save by God. Az  He hears it, and it will bring down vengeance at length.  Is this the right policy that I have shown proofs of under my own  knowledge, either in respect of the advance of Truth and Science, or of  Justice and Right? Will such a method as intimidation in this “free” This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms System of Compulsory Vaccination. 9   country tend to help the cause in people’s estimation, and their obedience  to Statutes ? And will such a mode as suppression in this age of enquiry  advance the knowledge of the true dangers and merits, of the necessity or  expediency of this operation upon the life-blood of all ?  It is sad to have to mention such things. But it is time such things  should be mentioned, for they must be abandoned if the cause is either  to be truly judged or decreed. No practice of great importance to the  people -can or ought to be supported by fraud or terrorism, which are the  weapons employed only by wrong. The manner and circumstances accord  with the thing they deal with, and show its spirit. Itis an ill argument,  therefore, when they are sinister, arbitrary or prejudiced, and must bring  the overthrow of their power. The authority that is sustained by tyranny  cannot stand, and the doctrine upheld by bigotry is condemned.  It must be remembered that this question is one affecting the whole  nation — unlike many — rich and poor equally finding it their concern.  And, further, it is one not of actions merely but of inoculation, and thus  of the lives of the nation—whence it comes to be of an importance  deserving fullest study, and the most complete, unbiased statement of  facts. On the decisions now come to and acted on will the future race of  this country be moulded, or by our judgment today How essential, then,  that the largest and fairest exposition be made to enable it to be a just  one, and nothing withheld ! Should it appear as though any could wish  another method or feel a bias, it is too likely to be explained on a sup-  position according to the familiar principle, that what advantages us is  clung to; as in all things human there are many persons—yea, and classes  —who find an Interest in their support ; and doctors are men.  The dislike of the poorer classes, however, which I have spoken of,  very manifest. It must have causes, and it must also be heeded—or we  shall make it yet worse. When I mention Vaccination to them or ask as  to their little ones, they will often answer, “Well, Ive been very Zuc/y”—  z.e., at having no ill effects. There were lately, I heard, 34 cases at one  Court giving trouble in one day—and, when present on a friend’s, I heard  nothing but such cases being tried. One woman, who consented to take  her baby to be vaccinated, after seeing others bleeding at the office, rose  up and left, saying—“I won’t have my baby done. MFPll take it home again,  Pd rather have my husband go to gaol.” i  Reference has been made to a state of things too hollow either to foster  respect or argue a true C the secret feelings of officials. How  far what has come to my e of a few represents the restis doubtful,  being quite unknown to me ; but, surely, it affords some presumption that  there is gezezally a section who in their hearts disagree, even among  those who are enforcing the Law. For how else should I be acquainted  with instances of this in a Magistrate, a Clerk of the Court, a Summons  Visitor, and a Policeman ? The last but one, as before said, avowed that  the Law should be judged right because it was the Law—which is to say  he would not else have Vaccination, as he also confessed. And the This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 10 Abuses following the Present   Policeman who was urging my friend in his turn to pay the fine, &c.,  allowed that he should not have his own child done.  My friend, however, not only resisted the Act, but the fine—since to pay  it would have acknowledged the debt. This is how dissentients on their  conscience should act. The authorities, moreover, are sorely troubled  then ; for to carry out the Law is to make martyrs, and, were but a  small number of those multitudes who now abhor Vaccination to stand  out thus, it would draw such feeling, and animate so many weak ones,  that compulsion would fall. It is their perception of this electrical  effect the extreme penalties would have that causes such reluctance in  the authorities to enforce 'them, so that the utmost delay occurs in taking  action, and in the meantime efforts are untiringly taken to allure the  dissentients to yield. We may well ask how fine, or even imprisonment,  however, gives a 7zemedy, or affects the child.  II. It will help to the decision of this great question to refer now to  some of the abuses which are possible 7zedzca//y, under the present Law.  It is useless to open a question and then keep it closed. To decide  upon it facts of all kinds affecting it need a hearing, or it is no investiga-  tion of Science and of success, therefore the result would be valueless.  I marvel at the attempt to prejudge or bias what purports to be a true in-  quisition into Science, nor can it indicate truth. These pages are written  to prevent this, not to bias the other way, as will appear farther on.  I have alluded to Death Certificates. These, it may be added, seem  too rarely to state Vaccination, though in so many cases death is held to  follow. As before said, this might be looked for in such young infants as  are vaccinated—often before weakly, in cold weather, and without home-  comforts or attention. The age, or any of these circumstances, alone,  would be sufficient to take off many if the arm “took” very much. How,  then, should it not often be found at least as one cause—primary or  secondary—of death ? To refuse to state it in such a case would bespeak  prejudice or suppression, and thus both prevent reaching a true judgment  on this great national interest and denote a fear for Vaccination.  The 17 cases that follow will show whether there is reason to state it  at least as part of the cause of death. In many of them it seems that it  could not ingenuously be omitted, though Zøosé /øoc Arofter hoc may not,  possibly, apply in all. I do not say that the authenticated cases of illness  and of death following Vaccination to be given are all due to this. But,  seeing they followed it, there is a presumption of it which warrants their  consideration—inasmuch as such a connection would be very serious, and  justify examination of any possible case, because of the general inference  it supplies. I leave it to the intelligent and scientific reader to judge if  they were due to the operation more or less, only faithfully presenting the  facts to tell their own tale. Some, I think, evidently show a connection,  if in others it may be called coincidence alone.  But, while this appears to be true, I believe in none of the cases of  death but two of the three I myself attended (though not the vaccinator) This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms System of Compulsory Vaccination. FI   was Vaccination mentioned on the certificate. In case No. XXXV, its  causing the death seems evident, and yet a certificate of another kind  was given, though there was reason to think that there was a doubt if  death was not due to Vaccination, or that it would not certainly be so  esteemed if it were known.  Of the 39 cases of non-fatal illness here given, in all but five they were  maintained not to be caused by the virus, though in five certainly of them,  Nos. XII, XIV, XXVIII, XXXV, XLII, it seemed to be doubted by some  doctors nevertheless.  The real feeling with many of the profession, or their doubt, was dis-  covered by the sad statement of DR. BAKEWELL in 1871, that in Trinidad *  doctors would send for English lymph when about to vaccinate their own  children or others “they were s/ecza//y interested” in. But the resolve  to express it otherwise, I fear, even though by a contradiction, too often, is  illustrated in the verdict at the inquest on the child Fullerton, held by a  doctor at Pancras, 1884 : “Absorption of pus from vaccine sores ... and  uot arising from the vaccine lymph.” Such absorption must arise from  Vaccination certainly, which was the introduction ef the said vaccine-  lymph, and therefore the death must. To give the cause thus was to make  an imaginary distinction, and to say at best that death was not due to Vacci-  nation but to its effect ; but the cause of a cause of anything is a cause  of it. This is the most impartial explanation of the verdict; it might  well be thought the pus of the sores which caused death was identical  with or enclosed in the lymph. :  The wish seems too much father to the thought, and truth, as though  purposely, veiled. These things one would not indicate but that such con-  fusing of it is important, since it has the greatest bearing upon the Statistics  which have long been advanced, and may therefore help to explain the  general theory of Vaccination’s acceptance ; for that is founded upon state-  ments and statistics furnished by medical men. There has evidently been  abundant SzØŹ7essio veri, and, when this was impossible, it has been  explained away: remarkable in the scientific authority and the wise !  Ignorance is at times a safer guide for us than learning; forit is simple,  which leads to impartiality, while knowledge puffeth up, often loses sim-  plicity, and prejudges—having theories to explain by and to sustain, which  may become dearer than the abstract Truth. Verily I think the truth as  to Vaccination is being declared, zoć 0y many wise or noble, but by szet-  lings and babes. Is not the wisdom of men being made folly and their  understanding brought to nought, in this matter, as has been rarely seen  in the world?  It is, however, stated that 316 deaths in six years of children under one  year of age are certified due to Vaccination. Unless the custom is different  in my own large town from all others’, we may judge hence wŻaźf ź/ŽĂe  number would appear were all such deaths as truly certified! For,  * Where there is Leprosy.—A Physician shows doctors’ misgivings in last month’s  Gentleman’s Magazine. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms i2 Abuses following the Present   when it is over 300 with (I fear) immense suppression, it would be great  indeed without this. And, yet, a sacrifice of 300 is enough for parents and  legislators to act upon and to abolish the Law.  Yet, a mother, demurring to the Vaccination of a delicate infant she had  taken to show, was reassured by the remark, that it could not do it any harm  if it did it no good. (In this case, as it fell out, I believe, the child died.)  Abuse may occur, too, in regard to the Vaccinifer. No doubt, when  cases are infrequent, there is an increased danger of taking lymph from  a poor subject, though I am not aware that this is ever intentionally  done. In Case No. XXIII, the vaccinifer was delicate-looking. This,  however, is exceptional in my records where one was seen (unless XLV  is another), which will afford us matter for important inferences.  From the point of view of Mercy (and of true art) I will here refer to  the vicious taste by which a limb tense, red, and Zaf, is sometimes  enthusiastically called “a beautiful arm!” or “lovely.” What does this  indicate ? Not compassion, at least. Alas for the false principles of this  age! It allows vivisection, and makes of science a god.  The state of the child vaccinated may be delusive, and some might  think it safe where others would not. In No. I, where it died (under my  care), the poor child had had bronchitis, and was discharged. But this was  from poverty as much as health, for it was still ill. Being pressed by  renewed notice of Vaccination, the mother took it, without asking her doctor,  after six months. She told the vaccinator it was ill, but it smiled at him  and laughed, so that he answered, “It is better than you or I,” and  vaccinated it. It died in ten days. In No. XXXVI, the surgeon said,  “unless there was any inflammation he should perform it,” on the mother’s  saying the baby was very delicate.  In many of the cases the parents have taken great pains to be safe,  and gone to private doctors (when poor), so as to feel greater confidence,  and paid. These bought their suffering and trials, and have never  any of them probably, been refunded or compensated, as a just law  should do. For what is compulsory is bound to indemnify a loss or  urt. In one of the cases to be detailed, the patient was vaccinated  from lymph “worth a guinea” (No. XXT), and in one of the worst, either  in this sad catalogue or on any record of suffering (No. XIV), the parents  had waited three weeks until the doctor had reliable matter as well as gone  to Žim to be sure—so that both he and they evidently made efforts to  prevent the ills that ensued. See also case XXIV. The spectacle of such  pains taken and their issuing nevertheless in the very evils guarded against,  and those to a degree seldom equalled, deserves notice and will be con-  sidered again. It certainly shows great danger and uncertainty, and may  well give alarm. I have felt it a duty to my country to point it out; for a  true surgeon will seek the people’s welfare and safety, and in his science  the truth. ZŽzs is our sacred trust—as humanity and the love of all are  our duty—with others. It is not an interest, but a philanthropy, and was  the occupation of Christ. It were better abolished than degraded to a This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms System of Compulsory Vaccination. 13   trade, or below this. When, moreover, medicine is made the subject of  laws and restrictions, there is a yet enhanced obligation to justice and  truth. For now the public cannot choose and so are not responsible ;  whatever hardships or crimes follow are the fault of the Government and  of those who persuade it that such enactments are needful and good.  The blood of children whose lives are sacrificed on this altar of science,  which may bring benefits, alas ! to many, is at their doors. They are  the vcźimms of error and compulsion in a “free country,” while protesting.  And how sad and solemn if one family has lost a member, one parent a  loved offspring, by a law against which they vainly wept and entreated,  after long expenses and obloquy and hard treatment, as though criminals—  which their maintaining what they felt their rights made them to be! An  offender because defending his children, punished for loving them, and  then where such evils followed often abused. In one case, the parents,  most respectable, had such slander that the mother could not walk abroad,  owing to the child’s state—it being reflected -on them. In others, the  doctor has been very angry at their telling him it followed the operation,  instead of allowing it and giving pity. And I know a case now in which  a summons is expected for payment of a bill wholly necessitated by the  Vaccination, and which the parent cannot pay nor feels it right to, so  expects his home to be sold. Yet, the doctor knows how sorrowfully that  parent had or required that attendance, and would have paid far more  never to have had his child done—yea, would zø to have its blood free  of the vile poison which still breaks out again. To such sufferers by the  laws Government ought to give good compensation. But what they have  is threats not to speak, or tell of their wrongs ! This is all officials can  give them after what they have borne. Whether Vaccination be a good or  not, it should not be promoted by injustice and tyranny : such is not the  wish of legislators, I feel sure, and occurs in the minor departments of the  executive or irresponsibly without being publicly known. Whatever be the  truth as to Vaccination, it will not be truly forwarded by such methods,  though it may be for a time. Compulsion does not finally enforce, and a  good thing seldom or never requires it. Ifitbe right, then why abuse and  fail to indemnify sufferers or protestants? Such methods are used with  evils only, and will infallibly cause it to be regarded as such if. allowed.  Government would have done better in this case to give premiums to com-  pliance than require fines for refusal. We have seen the injury to the  public cozsczence, as well as truthful statistics, that this has entailed.  A cruelty is no better for being “gratis.” Nor does the Governmental  grant of half-a-crown pay the heavy costs, far less the grief and the wrong!  For the sighing of the poor and the crying of the needy God will arise  —though it be long unheard of men and unknown. Had Governments  listened to such protests and believed them, revolution had never been.  We boast in England paternal government, not a Draconian code.  I have spoken of the grievance medico-legal, of some of the many and  varied abuses which can and do occur under the present system. Others  C This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 14 Abuses following the Present System of Vaccination.   have been mentioned elsewhere, but these I have myself knowledge of—  as illustration offered will have shown. The record of cases which  follows may evidence whether the fears and strong cautions here given  utterance to are justified, and will speak for themselves. ‘They are  authentic ; for, though none vaccinated by me, I have seen most of them,  and in nearly all cases the parents, and often given their words. Having  been careful to obtain full particulars, I think they have value, and that  many points of importance are illustrated by them. As will be seen, in  but few did I know of them at the time. They have been mentioned to  me since ; and, in making a record, it was in the truth’s interest, nor did  I think to have published—as seems a duty- now. I was not curious as  to aught but the symptoms, and such features as I am enabled to give  the world,—which were enquired carefully where possible, that they might  be believed and compared. Viewing them as the friend of all men, and  as public sufferers, there was no professional motive or curiosity (but of  science), and I may say that if doctors were censured, I sought to check  it whoever they might be. I have shown later that they are not neces-  sarily to blame.  Under thesė circumstances, by no one who seeks the true solution of the  problem now before Parliament and the country, and which is so vital and  of a universal interest, can I be blamed. If any should do so, it would  be from biassed feelings ; but by impartiality only can things be rightly  judged. Science, like other truth, courts the light. And I have simply  stated fac/s as they stand.  They are, of course, only the cases known to or remembered by me, in  which harm has followed Vaccination. In others, far more numerous,  none has appeared. They evince that it will not do injury in all, Żzź  may in any; and, ¿f one- case then only be proved clearly, I maintain it  should not be compelled. For, if it has occurred certainly to but one child,  it might have to all. In a question of Life the least possibility, not the  greatest, should be regarded ; but the rule is apt to be to look at the  greater “chance.” However small, the other “chance” must then be  remėmbered, and, I would say, even decide the action pursued. The  reverse rule is rightly followed in other things, but ought never to be  where life is concerned.  The following touching cases are, as far as I am aware, yet unknown  to the World, and thus a new contribution. Many of them deserve well  publication, -as will be seen. They were not all vaccinated in my own  town. The graphic descriptions of the poor are employed.  In only eight of the cases is the subject a resident of another place.  I may add that I have made no attèmpt to learn examples by corre-  spondence, and in the past very rarely made a record of severe cases  seen by me unless leading to death.  The faulty names of many are due to the difficulty of questioning without  giving an alarm, which caused me not to ask them. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms CHAPTER II.   CASES OF INJURY AND DEATH ARTER  VACCINATION.  Quanquam animus meminisse horret luctuque refugit,  Incipiam.—Virg. Æn. I1.  CASE I.—SARAH ANNE D., Infant.  AD bronchitis when ordered to be vaccinated, for which she was  under treatment one month. Discharged. A further notice for  Vaccination being received, was taken to Public Office, aged six months,  though still ill. Vaccinated in four places. Bronchitis returned, and I  attended it the last three days -of its life, it yg in ten after Vacci-  nation ; I giving a certificate to release parent from taking the child to  show, an officer called and found it laid out.  Strong family tendency to bronchitis. Other children seem very well  and have not suffered, though vaccinated.  CASE II.—ELLEN D., Infant.  Vaccinated at three months (at Public Vaccination Office), from a  healthy-looking child. Had “not a spot before.” Had a “good” arm.  As soon as the sores died, others appeared on arm lower down, from  matter re-vaccinating, as they thought. A large discharging sore. When  it healed, similar one came out on head, which I saw festering. It was  then six months old. Health quite affected.  Nothing known of in the family. Other child is next case.  CASE III.—WILLIAM D., Infant.  Vaccinated (at Public Office), aged three months. “Never well after-  wards.” Was well up till then. Vaccinifer not seen. ‘Died, aged 13% years,  of dentition and bronchitis.  CASE IV.—AMELIA S., Infant.  Vaccinated (at Public Office), aged three months, when quite well. Had  “good arm.” There has “always been something ”—never well—since.  Eruptions on cheek. Teething very trying. When I saw it, aged 14 years,  it was “pale and puny”—as it had been since Vaccination, and a week This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 16 Cases of in jury and   before, having been burnt, a vesicular rash had broken out near the  burn. It was getting worse, and after what befel the sister the mother  was full of uneasiness.  Nothing known in family. Four brothers and sisters, healthy and vac-  cinated, and one deceased the next.  CASE V.—JEMIMA S., Infant.  Vaccinated (at Public Office), aged nine months, “in very good health ”  —“a splendid girl.” Had (N.B.) “a lovely arm—suffered a lot.” The  four places all took.  At age of 13 months, “broke out all in a scab all over her head.” Then  “it went all over her head, and her had it every bit of her; her had it,  sir, until her was a year and six months old.” ‘Then chemists healed it.  But, from this time, she “was never well till her death.” A white linen  had to be kept over her head, and her hair cut off. She Zed, aged two  years and four months.  CASE VI.—WILLIAM Q., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged three months (at Public Office), from a child. Quite  well until then. Two places took. There was great swelling and redness  and the child was brought very low. I thought it would die. It was ill  one month under my care. Indignation expressed at her not taking the  child to show, I having exempted her.  No disease known of, mother says, in themselves. Only child. She would  “rather go to prison than have another done.” The great DR. WATSON  would encourage her, too.  CASE VII.—BERTIE E., Infant.  Vaccinated (at Public Office, London), aged three months, from a child.  Quite well before. It “began pining” at once; it was “always ill.”  Attended as consumptive, the doctor saying it was wasting away. They  had (for them) “enormous expense.” Aged 11 months, had convulsions;  and Zed aged one year, I having attended it a few days.  Many would Zay much to escape such a gzažuiźy.  There is said to be a strong family history of consumption. ‘Three  other children, vaccinated, well.  CASE VIII.—GEORGE V. D., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged four months. Ill since. Took diarrhœa, for which  I attended it, and Ze in two weeks, 1884. I certified the cause of death:  “ Vaccination, five months. Diarrhæœa, two weeks.”  CASE IX.—EMILY B., Infant.  Vaccinated (at Public Office), aged 4% months, in four places, after  second notice. Before “there wasn’t a nicer child going,”—it was, said  another, “a little model.” It took severely. The arm was “five weeks  bad,” in fact “never healed ;” for it was.raw when she died. Three This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Death After Vaccination. 17  weeks after Vaccination, a sore, dark and dry, of a shilling’s size, came  on the leg—attributed by the doctor to teething. Then it had fits, and  so died. Certified, “convulsions.”  Parents say, Nothing in the family. One child died, another is living  well, Vaccinated, aged 12, and a third is the next.  CASE X.—WILLIAM B., Infant.  Vaccinated (at Public Office), aged six months, in three places.  Healthy, except a little trouble with teething. But “never well after ;”  he has been under four doctors’ care. At 12 months, he became ill  with discharge from the ear and very weak, and was better by the time  he was two years old. Then he had measles, after this whooping cough,  and last fits, of which he dezd, aged three. The last two were assigned  as causes of death.  Parents would rather be imprisoned than have more vaccinated, after  losing źwo children so sorrowfully. (Who would not?)  CASE XI—DAUGHTER D., Infant.  Vaccinated (at Public Office), aged about three months, in three places,  —took well. It was well before. From Vaccinifer. About two months  At last, had diarrhæœa, and dzd in two weeks—aged one year. Diarrhœa certified. `  after, eruption came on head and face, discharging, “never got well.”  Nothing of the kind in family. Six other children, well and vacci-  nated, and four have died.  CASE XII.—WILLIAM B.  Vaccinated, about 30 years ago, in infancy, it was said from a child  (but without the child’s being seen to be used) that was healthy-looking,  but its father afterwards developed “King’s evil.” This was at the Public  Office. The child was “splendid healthy” before. It did not take much  at the arm, but “went to the eyes,” which swelled and discharged very  much zzžił both were lost. This began on the ninth day. The matter  falling on the mother’s breast, infected the twin brother, JOHN B. (who  had not suffered from Vaccination), so that Že Zosé one eye. DR. B.—,  whose assistant vaccinated, when he saw was shocked and said, “the  child’s been vaccinated ?” and asked who by, and offered to help it  to ʻany institution. It was taken to Liverpool to a hospital, and seen  by many doctors, and the man later was at Bristol Blind School.  ‘The doctor would not allow it was from Vaccination, though shocked.  Nothing, it is said, in the family; the mother still living, no blind-  ness. There were 12 or 14 children altogether, healthy and most of  them vaccinated. The one who gave me the account never was, and  her family are all well. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 18 Cases of in jury and  CASE XIII.—MAN C.  Vaccinated, aged five years, in Ireland, 30 or 40 years ago, from a  cow. It took in three places. Again, aged 14, when the arm grew so  dark and swollen that the doctors wished to amputate at the elbow;  but the father refused, and it was cured at home.  But DR. TANNER says, “It is clearly a safe proceeding to ze-vaccinate.”  And this was from the cow ! It should have been the calf.  CASE XIV.—MABEL I. P., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged about 10 weeks, from preserved lymph. It was  done thrice. Had “not a speck before.” “I was,” added the mother,  “luckily ill on that child; so had several witnesses of its health and  what a lovely baby it was born.” The arm was very dark and did not  rise.  “Three days after the Vaccination there came at the top of the head  a dreadful’ cap, white, like a skull-cap. When it was washed, it became  scabby ; then (after seven weeks) the child became blind. Then its  cheeks were covered and the nose and ears.” It was by the fifth day  “out all over.” There were fissures under the arms, in the groins, &c.,  and a pin could not, it is stated, be inserted between the spots of the  rash. The cheeks were “one solid mass.” For five months.no clear  flesh. The blindness lasted 18 days. Head was kept covered for five  months, during which time the mother had no rest at night. A person  of position testifies, in writing, that it was “in a horrible condition—  the face and head being covered in a mass of sores;” and another  wrote: “Although I have spent several years in one of the largest  hospitals in the country, viz., the General Hospital, Birmingham, yet  7 never saw such a horrible sight. It is impossible to describe the sad  state it was in, and were it my child, I sħould feel justified in destroy-  ing its life. And I consider” he adds, “it 1s: a national sin to be  compelled to have children vaccinated and to run such risks. I shall  spend my life in prison (if necessary) before I have one of my children  vaccinated.”  The child being shown a doctor, and he asked by the mother if this  condition was not due to the Vaccination, he said, “72 Zoos very much  Žike it” But, unhappily, like the other cases I have to` record (almost  invariably), the various doctors who have seen it, and many persons of  standing besides, deny ‘strenuously the connection. It was supposed due  to the nurse or in the family, but without the slightest proof.  The mother tried to agitate, but in vain. She “took it,” under a veil,  “to every part of the town to try to get any one to take it up.” “I’ve  been the means,” she told me, “of one, two, ten not being vacci-  nated.” “If I only had øe to help me with it, I’d have carried it  through.” She was advised to take the child to court—there were 18  cases that day; but she could not. A Town Councillor brought the  matter before the Guardians, but in vain. She was borne down with This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Death After Vaccination. 19  menaces by the authorities, though a leading minister wept to see it and  another man could not bear the sight. “If I only had the means,” said  the young mother, a great invalid since, “Id go and stand and tell the  people to-morrow what my child suffered. Pll suffer and go through any-  thing, and would go to Australia to make it known.” And the husband  added: “Pll never have another done. Fll stop in gaol all the days of  my life rather than have it done.” He earns but £1 1s. per week.  “I used,” said the mother, “to cry night and day to see the state of my  baby. And I would even go down upon my knees many times, DR. Fox,  t0 ask the Lord to take it. No one knows what I’ve been through,” adding,  “I'm afraid to walk the streets.” This last was said in allusion to the cruel  slander with which low neighbours abused the parents, judging easily that  the child was infected with an immoral disease: they even moved, and  public worship was left by them. (The medicines used were on such an  idea.) “We had,” said she, “to go through all that scandal, and this very  day I would not like to go through the streets because of it.” Is not this  an aggravation of the other sore trial, and a ground for rich compen-  sation or damages? Yet, they received only cruel anger, threats, and a  bill for attendance, followed by notice of summons and beyond their  power to pay! I fear a person of wealth would have procured an in-  demnity as well as a general feeling ; and there is little doubt such a case  among those of high station would have put an end to the Law.  “It never slept a proper sleep—moaning all the time.” All sorts of  costly things (to them) had to be got for it, so that it once had three pints  of milk in a day. For 11 weeks no water could be used to its face, but  only the matter removed. When it was ill at first it caused sores on the  mother’s arm and breast from the nursing—thus inoculating her (?). It was  a “living misery,” and very foul to be near. When a minister prayed it  might be taken, the little thing smiled, making the cracks in its cheeks  open and bleed. Yet, before, “everybody that saw the child said it was  a lovely baby.”  It has never been well since, but alas! manifests that the loathsome  poison is still in the blood. She keeps breaking out still and getting  better by the medicines, ceaselessly—sores coming in very trying situa-  tions all about her after some days, bleeding and weeping, and then  dying away. In the prospect of such a life and the infamy, her mother  told me with tears, she would rather now follow her to the grave. I knew  of a young woman who, on finding a skin disease (born in her) was in-  curable, źoož Žer ife. What is so felt by the parents is that this should  be compulsory. “How cruel it is,” they wrote, “that we should have to  look on our dear baby through being compelled by Law to have such  cruelty, and disfigure her for life! It’s a daily trouble to us to see our  little child, a year and a half old, having to suffer so much through the  Vaccination, and was compelled to have it done. ...ë Ifit had ended  in the blood after all the dear child’s suffering we would have a little  better prospect, but for her to be breaking out every hour !” This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 20 Cases of Injury and  Only the palms and soles were free of the eruption. Scabs came  wherever she touched a part. “No one can tell, no one knows, what  that little child has suffered.” Ithas had a kind of quiet fits since Vacci-  nation, which began after nine or ten weeks, and resemble the state  under chloroform. These are only averted by continual use of expensive  medicines, several times a day; and the mother has actually lately  pawned her wedding-ring to obtain this !  Now, when the child is alone, she will scratch herself until she bleeds.  She has to have her hands tied or gloves on when asleep, and will not  rest more than half-an-hour continuously. Itis an expense beyond the  parents’ power to get the medicines for her she continues to need, and I  advised them to appeal to the Guardians (and they have done so) for the  means for their past debt and present tax. “I could do nothing,” said  the mother, “but attend to the other two when they were done.” At  London—where this case was brought under the notice of the Royal  Commission—doctors considered it & dad one of syphilis.  I have before shown žŽe great Øains taken both on their side and on  the doctors to have good matter. In no case have I seen this greater,  and yet in none have I known such terrible fruits.  The parents are both very healthy—except the mother since. They  have two other children, who are very fine ones. Two others died in birth  —one by instruments and the other stillborn (a fine child and a twin).  While this is passing through the Press I have been called to the child  in a fit. I cannot forget the mother’s weeping words, as she bent over  and nursed this little martyr to the laws of England : “S/s zot my child  to-night!” “Why,” she asks, “don’t they torture zs, and not these  little innocents ? What have they done? What can they tell?”  CASE XV.—WILLIAM H. H.  Vaccinated about 20 years of age, in good health, in three places;  never before. Soon after “boils” came out under both arms. He “suf-  fered severely ” from them, being treated two years, and sometimes lanced.  ‘They continued, 7—8 years.  When he objected to have his children vaccinated on this ground, the  Stipendiary lessened the fine to 10s. He said if he could get a doctor’s  certificate to say the above illness was due to Vaccination, he would ac-  cept it as “reasonable excuse,” but the appellant felt he should doubtless  be unable to, so did not try. Thus, it appears, there is little hope of  a person’s having the benefit of that saving clause in the Act. For,  where the very reasonable excuse exists, it is not admitted unless ap-  proved by a doctor; and that is, by a man pledged to support the Law.  A certificate must be had from them such as they never will grant ! This  is a hardship and an anomaly. So, in this intelligent man’s case (a man  of standing), after suffering seven years’ illness and expenses from a com-  pulsory Vaccination, he must be /zed half-a-sovereign—and at this price  Luy his child off the same risks ! What kind of compensation or com This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Death After Vaccination. 21T  Msata LERES ISTEE  passion is here? He says now he would rather, in an epidemic, run the  hazard of smallpox than be vaccinated, and spend his life in prison than E  have one of his children done.  Nothing known in family. Brothers and sisters healthy.  CASE XVI.—WILLIAM J.  Vaccinated, aged about three months (at Public Office), when well. A  rash zvøzmzedzaćeľy appeared ubiquitously with foul discharge, and so con-  tinued—or a constant festering—with discharge from the ear, until four  years of age. Then had the measles, for which I attended him (six  years ago). At seven he began to be as otħers, and the ear-discharge to  stop ; though zé zeczu7s occasionally stiil. He had some of the spots when  I attended him, and has very many faint scars now.  No rash known in family, and none in the other children after Vac-  cination.  All doctors it was shown to said, it is stated, that it was “bad  Vaccination.” (This was at M——.)  CASE XVII.—Infant P.  Vaccinated (at Public Office), aged about three months, in two places ;  Child was ill from it about six months, needing much attendance. From Vaccinifer. |  well before. The whole limb was thereafter in a very dark state (red).  Family said to be free from such complaints. Other children spotless,  vaccinated.  CASE XVIII.—SON R., Infant.  Vaccinated (at Public Office), about three months old; “good” arm;  from vezy healthy-looking child; quite clear before. A week after, sores  appeared in different parts. When I saw it, aged nine months, it still  had little pustular breakings-out.  Said to be no skin disease in family or in the other children.  CASE XIX.—GEORGE T., Infant.  Vaccinated, from fear (at Public Office), aged 2$ months, from an ap-  parently healthy child, in four places. A doctor testified how well it was  the day before; as always. Day after Vaccination, it manifested bron-  chitis and throwing back of head, and continued ill in this way some two  months. Itis not well yet (near five months later) by far—having more  than once nearly died. The doctor thought it took cold when taken out,  but the day was lovely, and it had often been out before. However, if it  did, it would be dze fo Vaccination still—though in an indirect way.  Nothing known in family. One other child, well and vaccinated.  D This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Cases of Injury and  CASE XX.—HĦHANNAH J., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged three months (at Public Office), from healthy-seeming  child, in four places. “Pm sure,” said the mother, “my children was  lovely, healthy children before they had the Vaccination done to them.  I can never believe it was not from the Vaccination. . . . It’s only  cruel and punishing.” There “wasn’t a speck on her before.”  These effects were that “just as the arm began to dry” she became  “covered with running humours” in the face and head. “It broke out  in a fearful state,” first on the face, which was full of discharge. Was  “very poorly” with it. ‘As soon as it cleared in one place it burst out  in another.” The mother was “awfully uneasy—could not rest at all.”  The doctor assigned it to “heat of the blood.” It was ill three months.  The scars had just disappeared when I saw it, aged ten months. “There’s  enough to do with little babies,” said the poor mother, touchingly and  truly, “when they’re zwe.”  The family said to be clear.  One other child, Case No. XXIV.  CASE XXI.—ANGELICA W.  Vaccinated in infancy and ill with it. Aged 16, re-vaccinated in the  epidemic from preserved lymph said to be worth a guinea. Had very  bad arm and dark, and felt as though there were something alive in  it. Before, it was well, and two weeks or a little after took smallpox.  In this case the severity of the effect zay, perhaps, have been due  to the presence of the infection of smallpox in the air. The  vaccination  tion may also have rendered the disease milder, as the doctor thought.  CASE XXII.—SoN M.  Vaccinated in infancy, from apparently healthy child. It was in  health and had “not a speck.” Fust after, it came out with purulent  sores and was “all over like a boiling pot—it went right through him.”  “I never see such a child,” said one witness. “If I had not seen it,”  said a second, “I should not want to see another—it was a horrible  case, the cZ was rotten” One woman it was taken to could not  look at it. It was ill about a year, recovered and is living now,  eight years since.  Nothing, it is said, in the family. Other children vaccinated and well.  CASE XXIII.—JOHN J., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged three months (at Public Office), from “delicate”  looking child, in four places. A “beautiful baby”—“had not a blemish  on it.” Before the arm healed, “had a dreadful breaking-out,” and  “a most dreadful head—all inflamed.” One witness told me. “it was  shocking.” A poultice being put on the scalp, “there came off,” said  the mother, “the shape of the head in the poultice ”—like skin. The  screams of the child were “fearful,” and as though (she said) scalding This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Death After Vaccination. 23  water were poured on it. “It was all blood.” “I used,” she added,  “to say ‘it’s never going to get well’ I got quite tired, and thought  ‘Pll not try any longer—it’s no use trying to save it’ But I kept  on.” Once—while the Vaccination was full on the arm—the child nearly  died away, and the father said, “He’s dead!” The discharge was  very offensive. His aunt of her own accord told me of it since,  saying. “it was an awful head” several times, and telling how “it  came off like a cap ;” beginning with bladders, which united—then the  sores, which bled when the -crust loosened, matter coming away. “It  all drawed,” she said, “like a lump of flesh.”  It was “very nearly well, not quite,” when I saw it, aged 13 months.  The traces of sores could be seen on the stomach and limbs.  But this was all “gratis,” we should recollect. Was it, verily? Why  does not the Law make the long /reaźment gratis if it does the disease ?  Are laws to be unjust—that is, “ Justice ”—indeed ?  Nothing known in family. Only child.  CASE XXIV.—WILLIAM R. J., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged five months, after second notice (at Public Office),  and took in three places. Had “never seen such a healthy child—a  great bonny child” until then ; only having suffered from teething at the  time of the first notice sent (as many of the healthy infants are to  be understood to have done and as any baby will). When six months  old, one “could hardly catch hold of its legs” for size.  Had a “wretched arm,” affecting it beyond the shoulder and elbow  joints. As soon as this dried, “humours came out all over its face and  parts of its head,” and it was “all full of humour”; this lasted probably  a few months. Doctor called it “heat of blood.” Has had bronchitis  since (cutting all his teeth “with bronchitis ”), and was well, at the age of  two years and two months, when seen by me.  Said to be no such thing in family. One other child, Case No. XX.  In this case every effort was made to eludeé Vaccination, and it was  done at last through the wife’s weakness circumventing her husband  when out at work. Had they not cause to try to escape it? Not only  their other child was a great victim of it, but this also became one.  Thus ož žhkeir children suffered cruelly after, apparently from, the  preventive or boon !  CASE XXV.—Female Infant.  Aged five months. Attended long since in London for eczema, after  Vaccination from a healthy-looking child.  Family healthy and no rash.  CASE XXVI.  Child, aged 2$ years. Attended in London formerly for eruption like  acne, after Vaccination from a healthy-looking child.  Family very healthy and no rash. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Cases of Injury and  CASE XXVII.—Infant W.  Vaccinated privately ; well before. Bad arm, and there was a fear  the inflammation would involve the chest, as other children had died.  ‘Respectable’ people: Doctors admitted, to them, it was due to Vacci-  uation, but said they must experiment (as I am told) and could not tell  it was in the blood of the Vaccinifer.  CASE XXVIII.—GERTRUDE H.  Vaccinated, aged three months (at Public Office), from a child seemingly  well (but which afterwards died), in three places. She had “not a spot  before.” She has had to be attended by a doctor ever since.  Before the week, when taken to be shown, scales had come out on  the head (scalp), which became moist and discharged. The doctor saz  zothing when the mother spoke of Vaccination being the cause. When  the arm dried (at about a fortnight), eruption appeared over the eyes,  and so on until “the face was one mass of sore,” and only the nose  could be seen apart, it being left clear. The same came on the body,  with much irritation, so that her hands had to be put in a bag and tied up. ‘The mother could not bear to see her suffering, and told me: “I  used to pray to the Lord to take her or relieve her, poor little thing ! The master don’t know what I’ve suffered with her. Ive been waking  nights walking the rooms with her,” &c. The eruption was bright or  light red and kept festering ; and, with the scratching, she would be  “covered with blood.” It reached its height by the age of two years,  and sometime after went off.  At almost six years of age, when I saw the child, she had one or  two sores about the head, and two obstinate trying dry ones at  the bending of the limbs at times discharging, as well as scars. She  was pale and poorly and being kept from school, as she often has to be. Her mother fears she will never be reared.  Nothing of the kind in the family. Two other children, healthy and  vaccinated.  =T  CASE XXIX.—JAMES P.  Vaccinated, aged three months (at Public Office), in three places, when  well. It took moderately.  Three weeks after, an eruption appeared—first on the head, in dis-  charging sores. This lasted two years. The child was ill five years,  under care, and has been thrice to a public charity. A poultice was put  on the eyes there ; and, after it had been on a day or two, the doctor coming took it off and threw it across the room, and they were told he said had it been on much longer he would have lost his sight. He did  Žose it one side. At the age of six or seven the eye was removed to  save the other. He is now fifteen. Here again the effect so serious This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Death After Vaccination. 215  may have been somewhat indirect or unnecessary, but it was no less  truly the effect of Vaccination in this case.  Nothing known of in family. One óother child, well. Another died of  convulsions.  CASE XXX.—ROLAND H.  Vaccinated in infancy (at Public Office), when his father was away.  Was well then. Soon after, a rash came out all over, discharging. It  has not left him ever since—perhaps 15 or 16 years.  Not in family. Brothers and sisters well.  CASE XXXI.—ROBERT B. M.  Vaccinated, in three places, when delicate (only), in infancy. This was  followed by injury to sight and mouth or throat, which left permanent  effects, so that now he is weakly, only just able to see and only just to  converse. It appears to me that he evidently had Iritis and has cleft  palate, and therefore had Sy//z/żs inoculated by the virus. He is now  39 years old.  No such thing in the family (who are highly respectable). It has  always been assigned to this.  CASE XXXII.—WILLIAM D.  Vaccinated, aged three months (at Public Office), in three places; was  “rather delicate ”—nothing else. Had bad arm ; sores confluent. About  three months afterwards, swollen glands in neck and, thence, about the  head. ‘They break out every winter since—this one, ex. g7., ten years  after, when I have attended him. He has also been always puny;  people say, seeing him with the others, “ You wouldn’t think they were  brother and sister,” and it is often remarked how they differ. Has been  reared with every attention, too, and care.  t  No consumption, it is said, in family or such swellings, and brothers  and sisters all well and have been vaccinated.  CASE XXXIII.—BERTHA R,  Vaccinated, {in infancy, from preserved lymph, when she was and had  been very well.  Soon had dysentery (before she could walk), and the eyes after that  began to “turn.” At nine years of age it was found out that she did  not see much, having been punished before at school for learning her  lessons badly in consequence. Glasses were obtained, adapted, and are  since used,  No blindness in family. Parents delicate. One sister, vaccinated and  well. Another, next case. A third, an infant, nicely but hydrocephalic  a little. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 26 Cases of in jury and  CASE XXXIV.—MABEL R.  Vaccinated, after two failures, at age of eight months, from preserved  lymph, delicate. Soon after had “consumption (?) of the brain ;” lay two  months or so in critical state. Pretty soon after Vaccination also had  an eruption on her head. Z%Że doctor said it was from Vaccination  (not the same who had operated). Now, seven years after, it is still  found there a little at times. It broke out in “humour” all over the  head. There is a roughness left in or under the skin.  One sister No. XXXIII.  CASE XXXV.—SoN H., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged four months, from preserved lymph; well, and pre-  viously so. In three places. The sore did not heal as usual, but kept on  discharging for 14 days. Then it “went” to just under the nipple of  the same (left) side. This gathering continued to discharge for 10 days.  Then, it closing, the child was remarked to be better that evening.  But next morning about eight it seemed dying, and in half-an-hour it  quietly zed. The doctor, who speedily followed, when he came, assigned  death to some other cause, though he emphatically showed a doubt  in another way as to this most mysterious case.  Note.—The point of transference was just over the heart.  Father asthmatic. Consumption in the generation above, but not in  his. Nine other children, living, well and vaccinated.  CASE XXXVI.—ERNEST P., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged three months, (at Public Office,) from an apparently  “nice fine child,” in four places, when very “delicate.” On this last  ground they pleaded to be excused. At five weeks old, he had been  “very, very low,” and “appeared dead ;” he was laid out—and lived,  afterwards, on yolk of egg and spoonfuls of milk. He “never had  a sore on him before.”  The azz was ‘bad’ for three months, and “something dreadful.” “I  almost,” said the mother, “thought it'd be into the bone.” She was  afraid to take it, as she longed to do, to show the vaccinator. She  obtained a shield, but “nearly thought it would rot.”  jesides this, almost directly after the Vaccination, “every bit of the  head came out in a scab.” wherever hair should be. It was a long  time “bad.” No other part but the arm. The mother “had nothing  but trouble with ” the child until it was aged two years. “Many times,”  she said, “for three weeks he has never been out of the bedroom.”  She had to give it “ constant attendance for more than two years.  He was over two years old before I could, hardly, let him see day-  light.” Her doctor, struck with admiration at her devotion and pity for  her trouble—the need for which great sacrifices he well knew had been  forced on her against her pleading by law,—said, “If he'd had some This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Death After Vaccination. 27  mothers, he would never have lived,” and would call him “the Little  Wonder.” “Many times,” said the mother, “for three weeks together  he was coming every day, and he did often expect to find him dead.”  The ear on the vaccinated side was “as large” as his foot for some  time. ‘“I think,” said this noble mother, “we ought not to be com-  pelled to have such children done. 1I said to Dr. ———, I said, the  poor little thing had enough to suffer without being vaccinated.”  The doctor forbade schooling until he was aged seven. He is now  five, being preserved by a special providence, and is sent sometimes.  But he is often taken ill and then “down in a moment” as if going  to die. He is “always whining,” poor little martyr of science, who has  his life made unhappy !—ever uncomfortable and peevish, unlike the  others and the mother entirely. One of these, though two years old  only, was, I found, fatter than he—who is more than twice her age. He  finds his little greatcoat too heavy for him before he returns when sent  out. * The Vaccination-marks are in relief (four oval swellings)—the sad  seal of the Law.  Four brothers and sisters, vaccinated and very well. One has died.  No eruptions in the family, it seems.  CASE XXXVII.—JOHN C., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged less than three months (at Public Office), in four  places, from a “puny” child. Was well until then. “Directly after,”  an eruption came out about head. and face, a scab over the forehead and  the scalp—“one mass,” which exuded “humour” and scaled away “like  a fish.” Also glandular swellings in neck and illness. This lasted about  a month. At times since there has been slight recurrence. Now, at four  years, a return seems imminent, such as has not previously been;  eruption is on scalp and about mouth, and also to be found on hand.  Said to be no such thing in family. Two other children, well; one  vaccinated.  CASE XXXVIII.—INFANT I.  Vaccinated (at Public Office); “not a spot” before, and well. It did  not rise. A few days after, an eruption appeared over head and face of  a shocking character, with thick discharge. It was “dreadfully bad.”  One respectable witness, of her own accord, spoke of it as a child whose  ears, and feet also, were 7zož/i7g, and flesh hanging, and that it was a  dreadful sight at five months ; and another, that she could not look at it.  (For it had been taken to show.) Another says she wept over it and her  own, the two mothers “mourning against each other” in sympathy.  What a spectacle for the pencil of the artist and the contemplation of  the humane ! We need the Gospel. These were ignored by the Zaw.  Child very puny, also, since Vaccination. Medin six or seven months.  Parents said to be free. Five other children, vaccinated and well, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Cases of Inujury and  CASE XXXIX.—THOMAS D., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged three months, from preserved lymph: “had not a  speck—was a beautiful child.” The arm was now “black” down to  the elbow.  Two or three weeks after, the father states, that the following appear-  ances showed themselves : Its “body was very pallid and thickly  dotted over with small brown spots about the size of a pin’s head, much  like the bite of a flea when the inflammation has passed away.” ‘This  was “accompanied with vomiting,” so that it was very low. It was  impossible to sustain it; and it appeared to ze starved, in about a year.  The father (a most intelligent man) considers it was killed: in this  case the doctor was willing to allow death was due to blood-poisoning.  Compulsion is a gratuity that costs very dear.  Nothing of the kind in family. ‘Thirteen others; all well, and  vaccinated, except two deceased—one of scarlatina and the other deficient  vitality from birth.  CASE XL.—SON P., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged three months, when very well, from preserved lymph.  Five or six weeks after, the head and face came out, beginning at the  top, in bad sores or blotches, and became “one running mass”—swollen  and loose underneath. It reached down to part of the chest. ‘The  irritation was so great the child’s hands had to be tied up in bags, and was  sad to behold. Aed at eight months.  Nothing in family. Four others, well; two of them have never been  vaccinated.  CASE XLI—DAUGHTER B., Infant.  Vaccinated from preserved lymph, when “a very fine child”—“had  not a spot.” About seven days after, scabs broke out on the head and  face, and it was quickly “one mass of humour,” with thick discharge.  “We shouldn’t,” said the father, “have known her if we hadn’t known it  was she.” It lasted two or three weeks and then seemed to be cured.  It should be said, however, that this child died of consumption (to which  there is a «slight inclination on one side), aged 19.  No eruptive complaints known. Nine others, well and vaccinated.  CASE XLII.—MAN V.  Through objections, not vaccinated in infancy ; but a soldier at age of  about 25, being well until then. Just after, “boils” came out about him,  which were very trying, and lasted some time. He was eight or nine  days confined to bed. Has had abscesses ever since—eight or nine  years. Was in India about the same time. The doctor was shocked.,  N.B., it had been done from the child that it had.  Not in family, it is believed, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Death After Vaccination. 29  CASE XLIII.—SoN P.  Vaccinated, aged three months, from preserved lymph. Then and  hitherto quite well. Immediately afterwards, scarlatina broke out on it.  Rash began, almost as soon, on face of a peculiar kind, which spread  until, by age nine months, it had become “one scab—one mass,” running  with “humour.” ‘The body was also affected. Only the mouth, nostrils,  and eyes of the face, said the father, were spared. It has gone on  giving trouble and great suffering ever since, though the eruption breaks  out thus only periodically—every Spring and Fall. But the skin continues  to be as I saw it lately, the child being eight years old, scaly, pallid,  and scarred with lines—so that the face looks as though it had been  burnt and is sad to see. The hands have a very thick, furrowed,  leathery, white skin. Of course education has been greatly hindered.  “It has cost me,” said the father, “scores of pounds, and almost  unbearable suffering to the child.” He lately took him to a London  specialist.  Nothing known of in the family. One other child, well and vaccinated.  CASE XLIV.—SonN R.  Vaccinated in infancy, when a “hardy” child, first in one arm and  then—that not taking—in the other. This “took” a little. In two or  three months’ time, an abscess, about the size of a breakfast cup, broke  out over Že firsé punctures, of which the child became ill.  Not the like in the family. Twelve others; well, except debility in  one or two. One other died from whooping cough, aged four. All  vaccinated. One suffered weakness ever since, apparently due to it.  CASE XLV.—INFANT S.  Vaccinated, aged 1% or 2 years (at Public Office), in four places, from  a “bloated looking” child, but otherwise seeming well. Had been and  was very healthy—never had fits, &c.  The arm was very bad, and continued so for three months. A few  days after Vaccination, child’s “seat came down,” and she was thence-  forth also sick or weak, having fits and never well. At length an attack  of bronchitis took her off, after about five days; she was 44 hours  convulsed before she dze.  Certified to die of bronchitis, aged about two years four months.  Family “very healthy”—no fits, &c. Three other children, well and  vaccinated,—and one died.  CASE XLVI—MABEL W., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged nine months (at Public Office), in four places, from  seemingly very healthy child, aged 11 months. Was a “hearty, healthy  child ”—“really a beautiful child,” the best of the family, and which the  doctor noticed on this account. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 30 Cases of in jury and  Next day the mother “saw the arm was going wrong.” When she  “What have yoz been doing to it?” She answered; “Ive only had it vaccinated.” :  took it to the doctor, he asked her “what she had been doing to it.”  It “broke out in blind boils,” which soon còvered it. ‘These went on  to watery blisters, and became “one mass.” At about six weeks after, it  fell, in addition, into a stupor—and, this not going off next day, the  doctor was alarmed. He thought it suggested poisoning; but soon told  the careful mother that, had this been done, the child would have either  died or recovered ere then. (He at first thought it chicken-pox.) It “went  on to a skeleton,” wasting away and unable to take or retain food. The  bones came through, or nearly. At 13 months old it zed. ‘The doctor  certified blood-poisoning from Vaccination, and also drew attention to  the case.  Family healthy. Eight other children, three of them died young—  most vaccinated, well.  CASE XLVII.—SON H., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged five months (at Public Office), in four places. Well  until then. Vaccinifer seemingly healthy.  Just after, watery blisters came out, dying always and being succeeded  by others, so that there was soon a thick rash on face and limbs. It  lasted four or five weeks. Had a few spots on cheek when I saw it  seven months later.  5  Said not to be in family. One other child; well and vaccinated.  CASE XLVIII.—ELLEN O’B., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged four months (at Public Office), from seemingly healthy  child, in four places. Was very well and had been.  After a month, watery blisters appeared on face and head. When I  saw child, after a fortnight, found large red blotches or scars, dry, and a sore bleeding at nose, where child had scratched it. Saw fine dotting of  rash in the skin on limbs.  Very healthy family. ‘One other child Vaccinated and well, and  E  one deceased (fits).  CASE XLIX.—DAUGHTER B., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged four months (at Public Office), in four places, when  “very healthy.” “Took” freely.  Sore led in a few days to an abscess under armpit of same side, which  was very bad and had to be lanced twice. Mother thought the child  would die, and the doctor appeared to fear it also. It lasted three  months. “No one did know what she went through,” said the mother;  “every one here do know of it.” It has “never been the same child”  since—not “hard” as before.  Nothing known in family. Five others, and two deceased—of bronchitis  and fits. The first Vaccinated and well. C/ Case No. XLII, and next. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Death After Vaccination. 3I  CASE L—ALICE H.  Vaccinated, aged three months about (at Public Office), from healthy-  looking child. Well until then.  In about ten days, “broke out” on the head “with matter,” and it was  very bad a good while. Ever since that was healed, has been subject to  abscesses—scars of which may be seen about the neck, and she is now  ten years old.  Children were vaccinated from the same child, and one of them cer-  tainly “broke out just the same” as she did: it is not known as to  the rest.  Nothing known in family, it is said. Eight other children, well and  vaccinated, except one which died at six of chest attack.  CASE LI.—BENJAMIN G.  Vaccinated, aged about three months (at Public Office), in four places.  A “breaking out” followed, “in scabs, from head to foot.” This lasted  about a year, and was cured by a preacher after others had failed. It  was called Heat of blood by the doctor. The boy has, since, been  “weak and languid,” with poor appetite and “never strong since” at all,  and is now 13 years old.  No eruptions known in family, Two others living, well—one vaccinated.  Two others dead, one of bronchitis with fits and the other the following  case.  CASE LIL—PRISCILLA S. G., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged five months, from preserved lymph, in two places.  The doctor had postponed it on account of child’s delicacy. It was weak.  It “pined away,” was “puny and weak,” and had no appetite, and thus  was never well after. It dze aged eight months, certified consumptive.  No consumption known in family. Vde suø7ra.  CASE LIII.—INFANT S.  Vaccinated, aged three months (at Public Office), in four places. Well  The sores coalesced and made an open one, which was said to go to  the bone, and the mother said “three or four pennies could be put in.”  When it was seen a/Zer three weeks it was half the width of the arm,  and said to be one-third of its former size.  Family said to be healthy. Only child.  CASE LIV.—SON F., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged three months, from preserved lymph, in three places.  It was then well except “a tightness on the chest.”  On the roth day the feet were noticed to be cold in the evening. The  child was watched and put to bed, and early next morning found to be This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 32 Cases of Tujury and Death After Vaccination.  CASE LV.—ABRAHAM C.  Vaccinated, aged 11 years, from preserved lymph, having been well  previously.  About a week after weakness and ill health supervened, so that he had  to keep his bed, and this for three months, on this account. Sight was  also afterwards nearly lost. Has “never been the same since,” though  it is about 20 years ago.  Family healthy, but his father was aged over 70 when he was born.  The only child.  An evident case of latent and inherent weakness, as the last is  one of fits, evoked by the depressing influence.  CASE LVI—SON W., Infant.  Vaccinated, aged three months (at Public Office), from healthy-looking  child, in four places. In very good health until then.  The mother “never had a night’s rest with it” from this time until it  was 11I months old, when it Zed. It came out as if with scurvy on its  forehead after the operation. At the last it had inflammation of the  lungs, which was assigned as the cause of death.  No skin affections in family. One of eight children, vaccinated, and no  others with skin disease, though one was very ill for a time after it.  N.B., the mother has been vaccinated and had smallpox.  A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit.  By their fruits ye shall know them.  About fourteen other cases known of are not given, since I have not  details ; one of them evidently a frightful one of Syphilis. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms CHAPTER I  REMARKS AND STATISTICS UPON THE  FOREGOING CASES.  N the examples of authentic suffering and death consequent on  Vaccination—directly or indirectly—we cannot, and one does not,  speak certainly of the causation in all. In many, no unbiased reader,  surely, will hesitate to assign it to the operation of the virus, remembering  that zé zs zoć necessary to be the only, or even chief, cause to be a cause.  As already said, the production of a disease, vaccinia, in very young and  often very frail infants is à Z77077 likely—I would say confidently, sure—  to be perilous to a great number ; and, in the added risk they are placed  in, a “ breath” may “disturb the balance”—such as the breath of the North  or the East. Conversely, Vaccination may be this breath when it was  but just in health before. I would not plead, however, for the decreeing  of a later period ; for the facts before us are such as to show the danger  is applicable at any age, or may occur in any case. ‘They show, I  maintain, that ¿Z caz zever be guarded against—a conclusion I may be  able to demonstrate later on and which, if true, impeaches Vaccination  exceedingly and would make compulsion wrong.  It is often difficult, or impossible, to be szze of the physical cause  of illness and of death, z.e., where there is any complication or several  might be given. Butit is hard to see why in these cases the factor of  Vaccinia, or the illness of cowpox, should be omitted mention when the  rest, or any others, are given—.e., hard to see why on scientific grounds.  It is certainly as influential an element as many others; which is  proved abundantly by many of the experiences here detailed. Sometimes  we have to give debility as one of the causes, o7 ž/Že oužy one, of death :  is Vaccinia, and such an attack as was that of Case XXXVI, in which  the arm never got well for three months, or of Case IX, in which it  never got well at all, a less rational or credible cause ? Is it less than  Debility ; and to be judged by the men of science (not the public)  unworthy to be said to occasion—even in part—I do not say only death,  but illness ? And this illness, to all appearance, its direct or necessary  effect? How far the persistent and concurring exclusion of Vaccination,  then, as a cause is justified in all cases the foregoing examples may  show—being given with conscientious accuracy, and all possible fulness.  And let it be remembered that the so uniform refusal (in my experience)  to assign it as cause of death is not the only one, but—as these cases This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 34. Remarks and Statistics  show also—the same is hardly less usual where illness only occurs. There  may be instances, doubtless, in which it is mentioned on the certificates  of death, but we know there is much objection and disbelief when the  people present cases as having died from this cause. It should also be  noticed in the foregoing collection how in many cases there was 70 0//er  illness or injury, nay, in most; see, ex. g7., No. XXXV. In others a  succession of other evils seemed to follow, the child being weakened—as  may be seen touchingly in the little martyr, No. X.—which, when it closed  its sad existence in great poverty at the age of three, had had six maladies !  In a number of these cases it seems a miracle the patient recovered,  and in one or two it was regarded as little else by the doctor. Certain  it is, and obvious, that but for great devotion on the -mother’s part some  could not have, and that those very ones are now crippled for life or  ruined, ¿f they are alve. This is a grave issue to contemplate, and some  think worse almost than death. We have, therefore, ;zof 07y cases of  death but of life-injury and weakness, as well as those in which the  hurt was temporary alone. Does not this injure a nation? I will say it  does even more than death—unless deaths be abundant. But, undoubtedly,  lasting injury is more common from this operation than death. Of the  cases here given, 17 died, and of the remaining 39 I know of but  11 that seem to have recovered, as may be hoped—though it  cannot be told whether some of these will not prove hereafter to be  delicate or have even fresh recurrences of their disease, and that it is  not still in the blood.* In more than half of them (6) the patient is yet  an infant, and perhaps, very lately cured, so that it is really gzzźe ź00 soon  to spřeak. Indeed all are doubtful but three or four. However, it appears,  that of the 39 living quite 17 were permanently affected by what Vacci-  nation may have caused. 16 of the cases (Nos. IV, XII, XIV, XV,  XVI, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXVI, XXXVII, XLII,  XLIII, L, LI), are noticeable as ones of long suffering. In but too many  we have found the sad testimony that the child “ was zever well since.”  The saving alive, and then the recovery to weak health, of numbers,  we have seen to be due, under Providence, to great and constant care  and anxiety in the poor mothers—already burdened with other children and  toils. And, in addition, these poor parents were put to charges often  quite beyond them—for attendance due to the compulsory infliction, and  after objecting to it on principle. This each has borne  Ignotique longa  Nocte, carent quia vate sacro.  But to refer to the mother’s tax. One cannot express what one  feels in contemplating the greatness of this, when the eloquent and  moving recital is given of inconvenience and fatigues and anguish  seldom estimated or thought of, and even (as one testifies) unknown  * One of them certainly (No. XLI) died later. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms upon the foregoing Cases. 35  to the husband in its full extent! In what I have reproduced of this  tax, may be seen the noble dedication and persevering love of the  poor women for their little ones, and it ought to be considered what  distress and labour they have endured. As some have said, justly and  touchingly : There is enough trouble for them with their infants, z/o  the addition of diseases offensive to sight, smell, and touch, and to all  feeling—and that for long months! Nor can this course go on without  constant anxiety and expense.  The above cases are insufficient for sure statistics, yet of a number  that allows inferences of classification which may be of interest and  some use. Without laying any stress,- then, on proportions, I will  analyze them in some respects. (See note at end of chapter.)  Of those, then, of which I have good knowledge from -the subject or  relative and mostly have seen, there were 17—o0or 30'5 per cent.— who  died and it was thought by the parents to be from this cause. A poor  couple in one case /øsé źwo!—as another (named Packer) did, late in  1888, by a doctor’s verdict at the inquest.  They seem however, to have things still worse in Nottingham, since  No lot, however bitter, but it might- bitterer be.  For there a shoemaker (John Plowright), whose courage recalls his  great fellow-craftsman George Fox, stated two months ago to the Bench  that “he had been the murderer of //7ee children by taking them to be  vaccinated, and he would not have his child vaccinated for all the laws  in England, Ireland, Scotland, or Wales.” No, brave subject of a free  country ! it is not thou, if so, who slew thy progeny, but the Laws—  since the deed was compulsory : from the Government, not from thee,  will an account be required. So this sufferer is called up by the Law  that (he holds) caused the death of three former children of an innocent,  obedient subject tò be punished ‘for refusing to risk the same to the  fourth—when God has given him another one! It brands him for  having a parent’s heart, and is unmoved at his plea. Itis not content  with his sacrifice; it willhave all. But, if it resembles the relentless lion,  the parent is now like a lioness deprived of her cubs, and his earnest  protest shall be heard where the Dove of Mercy finds a foothold upon  earth and be preserved by the historian to prove to future times the  barbarity of our boasted age.  It appears as if the virus conveyed a disease in 34 of these cases cer-  tainly, II, V, IX, XI, XIV, XV, XVI, XVII, XVI, XXI, XXII, XxXXxV,  XXVI, XXVII, XXIX, XXX, XXN, XXXI, NXNIV, XXNX,  XXXVI, XXXVII, XXXVIII, XXXIX, XL, XLI, XLII, XLII, XLVI,  XLVII, XLVIII, L, LI, and LVI,—o7 more than half—and probably  in five more at least, IV, XII, XX, XXIV, XXXIII : in all 69 per cent.  In eight cases, brothers and sisters were the subjects—in one, the two  sufferers being ž/Že ozžy children of the family. See, too, XLIV and LVI.  In as many as five of this number, or 11 per cent., the sight has been This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 36 Remarks and Statistics  injured, total blindness being found in one case (No. XII), and as total  of one eye, in two—though one indirectly, the brother of the last cited. In one, also, there was blindness for 17 days (XIV) and see No, LV.  This large record of sight-affection seems important and striking. It is  in confirmation of the opinion of DR. CAMPBELL against Vaccination as  causing blindness often, he being Surgeon to the Royal Normal College  for the Blind at Anerley.  An enquiry has since been instituted, and another doctor reported—for  the guardians—eight cases out of the 140 inmates assigned to this cause,  and that in one only of these had he a doubt. But it seems worthy of  notice that azoźŽer doctor had judged these cases otherwise, so much  as to refuse Vaccination for his child; and, moreover, they themselves  could not have well attributed the blindness to this cause without ground. In six of the cases I know education was decidedly checked.  In two, at least, cruel suffering by Slander was brought upon the  parents.  In one, the Vaccination had to be thrice done, certainly ; and in two,  singularly (Nos. XII and XXIX), it did not take very much. But it  would seem likely that, where it affects the system greatly, the deter-  mination may make the seat of insertion less painful, on a principle  familiar in medicine as well as in the natural world. For we find in  two, at least, of the worst cases, XIV and XXXVIII, the arm did not  zise, but was dark. In some it seemed as if the virus “took” in other  sS  parts.  In about 12, on the other hand, there was a very bad arm.  Thirteen, or one-third, of the 39 living cases, were very bad ones—all  will agree.  In seven, the patient is a grown person, in five of these the  vaccination  tion not having been performed in infancy.  In some, ill effects appeared immediately after Vaccination. Indeed,  this I find in 33 out of the 56. In other cases, it was so near the  time, as to appear to be due to it. Its not ensuing at once then is,  however, in harmony with laws of disease. The dreadful sy///#s does  not show itself, when inoculated, for from three to seven weeks.  Thirty-five of them were taken to Public Vaccination Offices. Ofa  few of the rest it is uncertain. Probably of 13 of the deaths, ten had  been vaccinated there, and three privately—7.e., most were among the  very poor.  Thirty of my limited number were males. Some, as will have been seen, are uncertain—viz., five. Of 51, then, if it be worth notice,  there are males 30, females 21. Of 16 who died, nine were males, seven females.  All the deaths here mentioned occurred in infancy, and all the worst  cases were after Vaccination then. It is stated authoritatively that the  resulting phenomena are neither more nor less severe then than in  older children. One would have felt this doubtful ž Z77077, perhaps, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms upon the foregoing Cases. 37  it may be true where all goes well—ze., in most cases; but, where  an evil result follows, or in the exceptional ones we are now consider-  ing, it is difficult to believe a child would not be more likely to be  very ill, and therefore also to die, at a more tender age than when  more robust. So far as the cases here gathered justify conclusions,  it will be of interest to this enquiry to see the ages at which they  were vaccinated respectively. I find that 51 were sufferers after Infantile  Vaccination of the 56, and in 12 of these it was at an uncertain period.  So that we have the precise date in 39. Of these  were vaccinated 22 aged 3 months, or about. 5 ” 4 ” ” 4 ” 5 ” ”  2 ” 6 bb) b) I ” 8 ” ”  2 ” 9 pE) bb)  I `, 1—2 yeas.  So that, in this basis of observations (va/eaź guantunm), more than half  those vaccinated in infancy at known periods were vaccinated at  about three months. None were before this, showing the people’s  general resolve to take advantage of the latest date allowed by law,—  except one at 2% /707m fear—a child who has since several times  nearly died, and is still ill, (No. XIX)—and one other.  In źwo cases only was the complaint suffered fram after Vaccination  admitted to be in the family (Nos. I and VII). Both these died. It  must be said, however, that in one of them the above is not certain—as  will be further shown.  In seven cases only the child was not well before Vaccination—in  three of which (Nos. I, LII, LIV) it died.  The subject was well before in 14 out of the 17 cases of death—a  truly remarkable fact.  Some of the patients are testified to have been, before, unusually ze  babies—as Nos. V, IX, XII, XVI, XLVI.  As to the causes of death and character of the illness, of the cases of  either apparently due to Vaccination which have come to my notice and  been recorded, I find 31, or more than half, were eruptive. Of these  six were apparently venereal], XIV, XXII, XXVIII, XXXVIII, XXXIX,  and XL, and probably several besides(?). Another (XXXI) also,  appears syphilitic, three were bronchitic, eight or nine manifestly scrophu-  lous, and 11 very ill with the arm— which could not but be due  to the operation at any rate. Of these last, in sr zŽažź aľone seemed  ¿he complaint. Seven cases may be classified as general debility or  consumption—which, with numbers of the other undefined ones, doubtless  really belongs to the division Scrophula. I suppose the two so-prevalent  states, scrofula and syphilis, are the greatest curses of the poor of this  country, and from this circumstance they are likely beyond others to be This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 38 Remarks and Statistics upon the foregoing Cases.  spread in a virus mixed with their blood. It is probable that most of  the foregoing cases would really fall under one of these designations ; I  have, however, preferred to describe their symptoms as well as I could  and leave the name.. Certainly, were but ø;ze case of either the  “king’s evil” or “bad disorder” engendered, it were a sore calamity  and a hardship; for it would be impossible to describe their loath-  someness, inveterate and multiform injury or, I fear, their contagiousness  in this way. To sow one disease in trying to guard from another were a  poor policy indeed, and no benefit. smallpox is not the only malady,  or the only dreadful one; and I fear worse diseases have been imparted  that it might be escaped! But this we will refer to again.  Having spoken of diseases of poverty, it is not meant they are not also  among the rich. Class is not a right standard, and would indeed be an  ill one in this matter—for the children of the poor are usually far  healthier than those of the rich, living and being strong under neglect  and hardship, while the latter often do not or are weakly with every care.  In the cases of death, those here given seem to show six from  debility or scrofula, six through eruptions, two from fits, two from  bronchitis, and one mysterious (XXXV). We will now enquire into the  way the virus operates so injuriously, having examined and classified the  results.  Note (page 35).  An extraordinary instance of that frequent source of error in statistical inferences,  and cause of the popular distrust in the science, —deduction of general principles  from small data, is afforded by the conclusions in the smallpox statistics issued on  behalf of the Health Committee of Blackburn, in which it is stated that of the 99  affected by this disease in the first half of 1888, eight were unvaccinated persons,  of whom six died, and six were imperfectly vaccinated, of whom three died.  It is actually inferred and stated by the learned Officer from this minute field of  acts (eight and six) that 75 and 50 per cent. are the proportions in these grave  relations respectively ! (I do not advert to the corrections even as to /zc that have  been unofficially made in these returns.) This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms CHAPTER 1V.  THE OPERATION OF THE VACCINAL  VIRUS INJURIOUSLY.  ACCINATION, resorted to to prevent disease, may impart one; it  may surely give one when perhaps the other might never have  been caught. We will now see if the preceding collection of cases gives  assurance of this further prevention ; for, if not, there is no preliminary  inoculation to guard against diseases the Vaccinuation may bring. And  we will first see how it does this.  Disease and death due to Vaccination—assuming this connection in  many cases—occur, it seems, in three ways :  I.—By Convection.  1I.—By Irritation. 1II.—By both. :  There are these three ways in which it may do damage, and any  case of illness may lead to Death—which implies no new element,  but only a special virulence or debility ; for little harm may cause it  in certain patients and far greater fail to in others—it depending on  two factors, the constitution and the disease.  I.—The method of injury of the first kind is by the conveying of  or Znoculation with a disease by means of the virus—which is impure.  This is what is usually recognised. But all cases are not of this kind.  As already noticed, more than half of the forecited ones under my own  knowledge, are examples apparently ; and five more in all likelihood—  making 34 + 5; deducting three which belong to the mixed class, we  have 36, which is 64 per cent. The nature of the phenomena in the  greater number of instances seems to indicate such a zodus operandi.  irisi  Nine of- the cases that. died (Nos. V, IX, XI, XXXV, XXXVIII,  XXXIX, XL, XLVI, and LVI) seem to belong to this class.  This form of injury is, of course, alarming, and may take any  character and be most fatal. It is, indeed, the less inevitable of the  first two, but the most surprising and uncertain. ‘Though the Law  takes such pains to guard against such an evil—so unnecessary to  the theory, we find them constantly nugatory; and the great precau-  tions used by doctors, in accord with it, to the same purpose no less. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 40 The Operation of the  For that this is so the cases here cited demonstrate ; and how it comes  to be may soon be scientifically shown. The infants mentioned as  very fine ones all come, as we should expect, under this class.  1I.—The second way Vaccination does injury in some cases is by  irritation or by Zeðz/źaćing. As the former brings a disease, this kindles  one. Itis not Vaccinia, the legitimate result of Vaccination ; for that is  a mild complaint, lasting not many days. But itis the arousing of illness  by the mere force of its irritation on a system that is feeble—as that  of a little infant may well be. Itis exemplified by a grievous outbreak  of blood-poisoning that followed the Vaccination of the soldiers of one  division of the Confederate Army in America, in 1862, and which was  assigned solely to the state of their blood under their circumstances as to  diet and cleanliness. So I find that most of the cases of delicacy (viz., 5)  in the children before Vaccination belong to this head. That the results  of this kind of sequel may be as serious as in the previous, is evi-  denced by six deaths having followed (Nos. I, III, X, XLV, LII, and  LIV)—assuming Vaccination a cause—and probably two more (VII,  VIII). And the above-mentioned soldiers were ze.  While Syphilis can only be due to the operation (where this is the  case,) in the first variety, Pyæmia and Septicæmia can only follow it in the  second. Consumption may, evidently, in either one. ‘There seem to be  twelve clear cases of illness following Vaccination by irritation, or- in-  directly (Viz. Nos. I, III, VI, X, XXI, XXVII, XLIV, XLV, LI LIII,  LIV, LV), and five more probable (Nos. VII, VIIN, XIII, XIX, XLIX).  Thus, the cases of this kind to those of the first are as 11 : 3I, or  16 :"36, in this range of facts, if I interpret them rightly. But, since  the former or Importation of- disease is quite abnormal and as it were  needless and this Excitation almost inevitable and natural, such a contrast  is astounding and truly serious. ZZ 7s éhe opposite of what we should  hope and expect.  III.—Both kinds of causation seem to operate in some cases of ill  consequences. It is, no doubt, possible enough (and but too likely)  that a lymph carrying secret poison may also lead to exhaustion. It  may fall on a frail constitution and since, as it appears any Vaccination  zay in this way prove hurtful and more or less perilous, one which  inoculates with some poison may too. But in such cases it may be hard  to say by which way the child is affected, or if by one more than the  other—and doubtless it is by both. In cases No. XXXIV, XXXVI,  and XLIII, may be seen examples of what is meant, and some of those  assigned doubtfully to the other classes may perhaps illustrate this.  In those just instanced, the parents’ health, together with the nature  of the child’s illness, seem to point to an inherited bias in two of them,  and in the other the same is implied by the child’s previous low state.  Yet, in these the effects of Vaccination seem so direct too and special  that they hardly belong to the second category of cause. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Vaccinal Virus InujurÂousiy. 41I  Cases. £. SE A 5 5 o g. g z : E £ a Z  To tabulate some of the statistics on the limited basis of facts we  have reviewed :  j D9 BA g S i S a | CAUSATION. ||  flness, not fatal .| 23 |35 | 34 | 24 | 27? 9? 3: 39  Death ...........…. S I4 7 9 9? 8? o 17  Total ...... 31 49 [511| 33 1 362 | 177 352 56  Where brothers and sisters suffer after Vaccination (unless from the  same source of lymph), there is some presumption of wrong state in  themselves ; but where, as so often, but one of a family, when the others  are healthy az vaccinated, it is as strong against the vaccine.  The cases instanced furnish evidence that c/¿/d7en in good health may  be debilitated gravely by Vaccination as well as inoculated with disease.  The last, of course, can occur as easily to the strong as to the weakest,  though the force and danger of the attack may be greater in the strong.  But the other mode of operation, by irritation, might be supposed likely  only in the weak. The cases here given prove that this is not so.  In those who were not well at time of Vaccination and before, there is  sY  doubtless the arousing of what was in the constitution (if only weakness) ;  and it will be contended that this is so in every case of the second class.  This is probable ; that is to say, that those infants brought as healthy  only seem so—which is all by which a parent or doctor can be led.  Latent disease is recognised. But it would not be latent if it could be discerned. :  How and when does latent disease become manifest, or break forth ?  As to the first point, it is infallibly by some irritant or excitant which,  by exhausting the vs vź@ below the average of the individual, calls it  into activity. When an illness or injury tries the powers beyond what  the subject can safely tolerate, the hereditary taint will appear. And  this influence may, it is obvious, be and is found to be actually any  depressant or excitant, from an “Accident” to a cold. An example of  the present action may be seen in Case IV, where a little burn led to a  rash near it such as had been before, proving that it was still there in  the blood. It was /Zażent—nofź really cured.  If it be said there is no need of an irritant, that were surely an  error. In the cases that may seem independent of one, one could  always be found; but, where it is a shock, a cold, fatigue, and the  like, it is most frequent not to remark it, and so to be unaware what  called forth this disease. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 42 The Operation of the  As to when latency becomes manifest in illness, this depends on  how long influences of depression may be shunned. In those subject  to hardships, it is usually early, but in the well-to-do life may be  passed to old age, and even to the end, without it, and yet a disease  lie in the blood. It is thus we are familiar with the fact of subjects,  who inherit both sickness and money, being kept from illness by  protection, sea-voyages, best diet and changes for many years, and  even for life. The date when latency ceases 07 7s discovered (for  many) is that of an overstrain or slight illness; and we see some-  times a person have an injury late in life, and the sore turn to cancer,  or bring on other fatal disease. Why should such sequel follow it were  it not latent ? It could not. So, that latency is discovered; and the  patient has had it, unsuspected, all his life until then. Had not the  leg now been broken, it might never have been known; had it been  broken before, it would have been sooner revealed and he had not  lived so long.  To apply now these doctrines to Vaccination. Is not cowpox an  irritant ? Why may not all that may follow one follow zé very well?  Does it not depress as much as -other slight illness, and more than  cold or weariness maybe? ‘Then it produces diseases after the second  sort. And it must be remembered these are then øz;é 0f Ar0p07tion  to the amount of irritation or to vaccinia, depending on the strength  of the predisposition when once that is roused. So that it is not  whether the operation of the virus is enough to cause much illness,  but whether it is sufficient to awake a latent tendency, that is the  matter ; and ž/Žžs a very slight disturbance of the system will do if  it be strong. Thus a small debilitating may arouse fearful disease.  Now, by what is above demonstrated, it is manifest that, had that  disturbing influence been avoided, the hereditary evil might have laid  dormant. It might have so continued, even unsuspected, till old age—  whereas, now it has been kindled and perhaps led early to death !  It may be answered, we should be careful—and we are—to see  that there was no such tendency before vaccinating. But this I shall  show to be incapable of certainty and no sure test; and are not those  who discover a lurking illness after an injury men who seemed well  very often? Hence, the child to be vaccinated will also ; for, indeed,  how else were it latent? Or, when he does not, then he is vaccinated,  if he only seems weak; of this we have seen some cases in the  present memoir, and its effects.  The last thing to be noticed in this connection is the claim of  Causation. For, where a disease is awakened by Vaccination, this  disease is given as the cause of the illness—and, when death follows,  of this. The operation seems to be overlooked.  Now, it is well-known that there are “first” and “second” causes  (if no more), and this is recognised in death-certificates, where places This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Vaccinal Virus Injuriously. 43  for two or three are assigned, and by those who fill them—when they  give more than one. It seems amazing that a physical injury or  former illness should be given æwzź/ another nearer death as joint  causes, and yet that, when Vaccination has held the first place—as in  so many cases here recorded,—it should not be named! This is a  parallel case, and provided for by the certificates which invite such a  report.  Further, I say a first or ultimate is as much a cause as a proximate  one. Are not Justice and Learning, and the Bible, and Monarchy,  and men’s conscience, all causes of our Laws, because they are made  by Parliament—because zZ is the final cause? Assuredly so; one is as  truly a cause as another, and in all things there are at least two.  Consequently, Vaccination is a cause of illness when it is not the  only one—a cause in cases of latency, or of the subject’s own dyscrasia,  as well as when conveying disease. And, if a cause of illness, zZ zs aso  a cause of death, when that follows—though in these cases it but acted  as irritant and aroused a complaint, it may be in a weak child and  though by no means severe. The last straw is said to break the camel’s  back ; in this case, to use the figure, we find the first.  It is possible Vaccination may as a depressant be sufficient to cause  illness, 2.2., without a latency to evoke. But we will assume it does not;  and still the above arguments show that it is a cause of fatal disease.  It is to be remembered, too, that in this kind of operation there is  little check to its frequency, and I believe no certain safeguard; and  that it is also, a most easy one,—however the obvious injury by  impartation may be held preventible and deemed rare.  This, the apparently most serious and the most potent ill-effect of some  Vaccination, may now be dealt with again.  Convection (as I have termed it) would seem to be the cause of the  rashes some say they see in Vaccination Stations, even frequent and  dark. Are not these, indeed, the cause of some of the rejections for use  as Vaccinifers ? And one would think a child who is found too ill (when  there is no rash) to make use of was unfit to use at the first. For was  such well enough to be vaccinated? If he was then well enough and  is now too ill or weak to be a medium, surely this is the effect of the  operation or of the virus (?).  The principle of Latency, which perhaps is too much forgotten on this  question, is again a key to our considerations. In dealing with that con-  veying of the maladies which has been admitted in Law and Science,  but is disputed whenever cases are mentioned as if impossible, we have  to consider Vaccinifers. The other ways by which it can occur I assume  guarded against, and will deal with the child. It has application, of  course, as well where the operation is performed from tubes, &c., kept  as from the child.  I fear that it is mostly forgotten that the Vaccinifer may have disease  latent, and how þad this may be. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 44 The Operation of the  It may be said, why must he have it? One would answer, I submit  that a/Ż have some tendency in their blood—though we may not know it,  nor they either, owing to its not being evoked.* Ifit be so, no Vaccinifer  is to be safely trusted; and that it is seems demonstrable. Did not the  child’s ancestors die from illnesses ? Are not these handed down ? The  disposition must exist in their blood. Are not its relatives ever ill? have  they not died? Sincę what is latent cannot be patent, how can the  doctor be sure what is in the blood? ‘This is assuming careful inquisi-  tion, and time—which rarely, perhaps, attend the Vaccination of achild  in these days. For the criterion of looking well is that taken ; and I do  not think, where it is met with, much else is investigated, since it is felt  scarcely needful then unless something causes a doubt as to the heredity.  Under the conditions at Vaccination-stations—which seem to afford  the most cases of illness—it is impossible, practically, to have an inquisi-  tion. So, if that be needful for safety, it cannot be, and the operation is  insecure. Ifit be necessary, what is necessary is not done. But, indeed,  no skill or care could do it did the circumstances allow of it; for no  skill and care could discover what lies in the blood. If the looks of the  child are not the criterion where doctors have leisure, or do not profess  to be the test of fitness, then at the Vaccination Office they are.  A conscientious man may ask questions as to family history, if able,  also. But this, as before hinted, is hardly likely where it looks. very  well. And where the child does not, it may be ineffectual and nugatory  on the following accounts: (1) The infant may not be brought by a  parent, but by a stranger or child who does not know the family history.  (2) When brought by a mother, she may not know the father’s. Z Že  sent for then? (3) And she may even not know her own—among the  poor. This is not uncommon among the reckless and drunken parents,  unworthy the sacred names of mother and wife, as every one knows.  (4) In atavism, the inherited disease passes over a generation, and vast  numbers know little of their ancestors. The taint might be in the parent  from his or her grandparent, and not yet manifested in the former. And  Science may have yet to discover that there is a descent passing over  two generations or more; it would explain some phenomena we some-  times see. (5) The parents may forget or mistake the family history of  illnesses. (6) This may be wilfully done.}  The above sources of error .or ignorance in the matter of constitutional  bias presuppose both inspection and enquiry. If this last be not made  in all cases, the risk is greater still,  The cases I have collected afford conclusions of much importance as  to the Vaccinifer. In 16 certainly,-out of the 56, this child—being made  use of before the patient and noticed—is testified to have been healthy-  looking, often very so (as in No. XVIII).  * If there is not such a condition in every-one, there certainly is in almost all.  + I am not oblivious that in the Cases the same uncertainty (or nearly) may  attach to the statements as to family disposition and history. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Vaceinal Virus in juriousiy. 45  All these but one were the media of cases of convection of disease,  and three are noticeable in those of death (No. 1X, XLVI, LVI).  Thus, we find children zoe for healthy appearance, or apparently the  best subjects for transference of the virus, able to transfer other and worse  illness ; and, not only so, but doing so particularly—by my inferences on  the cases. For not one of that group of 16, in my collection, seems to  have caused the second evil, or illness by irritation, but all the first.  That is to say, those which more than any other Vaccinifers appeared to  have no taint by inheritance, when the Vaccination led to illness, gave  a taint—that is, the best children, or the very ones a doctor would  choose. Such a fact, proved for us by my little data, may seem at first  sight incredible, but can be demonstrated by science. Certainly, if sup-  ported, it is a fearful impeachment of Vaccination from the child.  It has been stated by my friend and old teacher, HUTCHINSON, that  high authority upon Syphilis, that this scourge when inherited will not  show itself till about seven years of age. Andđd it is a fact also źŽaź źłŽose  who have it often appear very plump and well-favoured until then.  But is not a child vaccinated and used as a Vaccinifer long before  this ? If, then, it is judged of by its seeming healthfulness, will not  the infant with latent syphilis be often chosen for lymph? And it  should be remembered here that a parent, if interrogated, would be  most unlikely to volunteer the statement of having this scourge. Will  doctors then, do they, put to her the question—an insult implied ? Were  this insult authorized, it would still fai), as a denial would be sure. And  it would not be enough to ask some or only the poor.  Hence it almost must be that very often cases venereal are made use  of, though with no such intent—and this explains the facts that exist.  And of this, which is the greatest evil (except death) the operation may  do us, it is scarcely possible a parent will confess the taint, while in  less—or moral—illness he may.  Here, then, we see the failure of the test as to securing healthful-  ness in a medium in the case of the worst thing to convey. And  let us bear in mind that this plague of the nations is sorely common,  and where not expected—even, sometimes, in the well-to-do. God grant  Vaccination has not been the means of sowing its dreadful seeds so  abundantly ! That it Žas doze so is allowed.  I now know a family (the father being since months in expectation of  a call to prison, though very poor), in which a kind of scurvy has been  for four generations in the blood. But the children will seem healthy in  infancy, and for a few years, 2.e., when they are chosen to carry matter  to others. It may be, then, such a thing is found as markedly in other  taints than that of syphilis.  A Justice has informed me of a case in which a woman refused to  have her child vaccinated from another, believing it had a disease in  the blood. This much angered the latter’s parents ; zé another, whose  child was taken from it, developed the disease. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 46 The Operation of the  In case XXVIII of the foregoing, the Vaccinifer died afterwards,  and in No. XII its father afterwards developed scrofula. Yet, in both of these the appearance was healthy when they were used.  1f I am correct in attributing, with the parents, the latter’s illness  to the virus, we may think how much harm it effected. For five  others were vaccinated from it as well as she.  The Vaccinifer in No. XXXVI, “a nice fine child,” which seems to  have given illness, must have given it many if it gave it one. For  many others were inoculated with the same lymph. Æ/# sic de cæteris.  From all these facts and considerations, there seems much room for  fear even in the case of “healthy” ¥Vaccinifers, or that they are not  really such. In short, I argue that žZ/Žere s 70 security against the  conveyance of disease.  And we have seen, the same grave uncertainty exists in regard to  the arousing of dormant dispositions which might never else have  appeared.  Thus, the fact of /Zafezucy too much forgotten, and so often uname-  nable to discovery, has an equally grave application to vaccinifer and  vaccinated and seems to impeach the operation on both sides. Hence,  JONATHAN HUTCHINSON — conscientiously — urges calf-vaccination, dis-  trusting evidently that from the child. But is it right to go on  enforcing on the poor what is mistrusted and the rich may escape?  It is done, doubtless, because calf-vaccination has great inconveniences,  and also, I presume, could not give a sufficient supply. It should be  remembered, too, that cattle have even Cancer and other diseases ; and  why, if so, may they not be conveyed and even Z/s means be unsafe ?  It is but needful, says a high authority (DR. TANNER), with other  usual cautions, that the child vaccinated from and that vaccinated  aaae  be both healthy and contamination will be impossible. But we have  seen how it is ;zøź so easy to avert it, and that, in fact, these condi-  tions cannot be carried out. For there is no deciding what child is  healthy—either as a Vaccination agent or patient; and we have seen  proof, from facts, of those who were not so being taken in each  relation—some obviously poorly and others apparently well.  I now proceed to draw conclusions from the cases, illustrating this  doctrine of Latency, and prove its grave application by most serious  facts.  In case No. XLI, it is hinted that, on this doctrine of latency of  disease, it is possible the after-malady of which the subject died  was connected with the (supposed) infection. For, granting the vaccine  conveyed the seed of the severe and perilous eruptive disease that  followed it, then it poisoned the system. But it might, conceivably  enough, I suppose, contain a consumptive tendency, or be thence  derived. If so, it might burst forth in after years, in another and  * This I since see has been also stated by PROFESSOR RICORD.  MAENE This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms more fatal expression, when circumstances favoured it; for it was in  the blood. Should it be said, however, that this were an impossible  operation, it cannot be denied that the having had the early disease  did not favourably dispose the patient, and Z//až Z/Žerefore it may have  conduced—very indirectly, but not the less intelligibly—žź0 ź/Že fina  result. For she might be assumed more liable to the Consumption  at 19 for having been so ill as an infant than if she had never been  ill, even though the one be supposed independent in nature of the other.  Another case that seems to illustrate this doctrine, also, is No. XLIII.  In this one the eruptive distress so revolting in every way which we have  had so often to be saddened by the account of in this collection, appeared  (as in many others) a few weeks after the Vaccination. But scarlatina  followed it at once. . Here, then, probably we have together irritation and  convection—the operation perhaps disposing the child to take a complaint  then prevalent, and also sowing another whose seed sprang up in due  time. ‘The first came from without, the second, probably, from within ;  and, if Vaccination had no part in the taking of the fever, it would be  almost sure to make it more dangerous and severe.  This doctrine of dormant disease may, when applied to Vaccination,  very probably explain numberless illnesses the causes of which are quite  unknown ; for the breaking out of a certain affection mysteriously in one  of a family could be easily accounted for by.a disposition the virus had  instilled in infancy, and which had lain latent and unsuspected until then.  Thus, I maintain, Vaccination may be causing an ùnknown amount of  the ordinary ¿z//æesses of people, though not supposed to for a moment  since occurring so long after— viz., of those otherwise mysterious, as sø  many are. 1f correct, this is a very serious charge, and it must surely be  held possible by the present argument.  The verdict of a jury lately at Pancras (on the Packers) in a case of  death was according to this theory of irritation and latency ; for, if  “accelerated by Vaccination,” it was caused by it secondarily. And  another at the same place, on the Infant G. Andrews, 1883, confirms my  position that it may not only injure but Æ¿/ as an irritant; for the  patient was judged to die “from the natural constitutional irritation  following Vaccination”; that is to say, the operation zaź;7a/ły irritates  the constitution even to a degree that may cause death. This verdict  states or allows a principle which ought to be accurately noted and  observed ; it is the zzz/eachment of Vaccination when not conveying any  disease, or at its very best.  Case XLIV shows the latency of sequelæ ; for the’ abscess broke out  after a few months, and—as this was on the site of first vaccinating, and  there only—it was evidently due to this.  A further feature of interest is afforded by this case,—which is that, as  that operation seemed to fail, it would appear to have affected the system  or gone inwardly, although nothing was manifested without. We have This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms seen from some other of the cases that such a principle of inverse pro-  portion seems likely ; and if so, it might be thus.  This, then, would lead to a new field of effects of Vaccination—also  boundless in possibility ; for, thus, in those cases of it which “fail,” the  virus may sometimes, nevertheless, enter and affect the system—being  received entirely wzź/7. ÁA case not given in this collection appears to  illustrate this typically. A patient of mine was vaccinated at about 30  years old from the infant of a notoriously immoral man. It did not  “take.” But from that precise time and ever since she has been weakly,  having been affected by sickly feelings and a sense as of poisoning  at first. She was well before (though not strong). This is now 15  years ago.  The child, No. L, manifested its inoculated poison /;sé ź00 Zaźe to  prevent its being used as a vaccinifer, and several were vaccinated from  it. The mother, being able to ask in the case of one of them, found  afterwards it had come out in exactly the condition for which she had  to treat hers so long. Here, it should be noticed again, a seemzugly  healthy child first gave the disease, which was handed on.  In all probability this principle explains the denial of Vaccination as a  cause of the cases of blindness at Anerley. For the Guardians’ medical  referee may have found, doubtless, another secondary cause, yet the  operation have been the primary one,—and then it is usually denied or  overlooked as such.  I have referred to the fearfully significant fact that a child in whose  system Syphilis is concealed not only does not show it, but a//ears a  peculiarly fine one until it is manifested, as if to make amends. In  Case No. XLVI we have a sad instance of this, and not only this child  but three others vaccinated from its vaccinifer died—the one known to  me surviving the others as it had been so admirably healthy before.  But, yet, this fine infant could not withstand the force of the plague, but  wasted in time away. A mother in this neighbourhood was infected  with syphilis during her pregnancy ; and, as her infant did not discover  it, it was used for a vaccinifer. But seven others successively, who were  inoculated from it, manifested the zøź/Že7’s state, so that it may be seen  how the child transmitted the poison whilst apparently clear. Nor had  it shown the disease, itself, when last seen. The photographer’s picture  is unexpectedly marred by a dark spot which reveals the poisoning of  some old rags or linen, perhaps by the insertion of a pin a century before  it was made into paper and which the sun has apparently called forth.  We have dealt, by many new and important facts, with the case  of Disease, illustrating and proving from the data the statements I before  made.  To turn a moment from what is ca//ed disease, let us think of Inebriety  —to which there is a tendency or poison in many systems no less  than to disease. Nothing less could be supposed indeed, and it must This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms be but too frequent in the land. Does Vaccination, then, never convey  this ? ZZ 7s imýossibľle it should not. But how dire an evil and wrong  t0 conceive !  In such cases—in fact, in all kinds of mental and moral bias—it is not  suspected and not demonstrable. But is it not, therefore, largely the  case? When one thinks of the number, frequency, and character of  such aberrations, it is fearful that they should be conveyed. But how  should they not be when the blood is? And is not the blood carried  when a disease is? If physical, then other maladies must be; for //Żey  equally lie in the blood.  Thus would be explained the great persistence and spreading of dipso-  mania and the country’s ruin. Is Vaccination ever thought of as effecting  it or keeping it up ? We know not, at any rate, what children do receive  by law soon after birth.  The fearful passion for alcohol many show is best explained—perhaps  explained only—by a birthright, their parents having loved it. And it is  known, I believe, that such early love for it may follow suckling while  the mother made use of it.  Let it be considered how small hope there is of controlling or  eradicating dispositions imparted in infancy, and how affecting when this  may be one to “Drink !”  Again, may not the phenomenon of one child in a family unlike the  others in constitution be explained often by Vaccination ? Especially  where one is found intemperate hopelessly, no less than where one is  sadly diseased Z/ysca//y, is it natural to ask if ’tis not from this.  Where, as often visible in my catalogue, but one child out of many  healthy and vaccinated suffer after it, the argument against safe Vacci-  nation is but the stronger. For here this one received an ill virus,  evidently, and the others (being healthy,) a good.  The above considerations should show that it does not lie with the  doctor ; but that, assuming usual care equally, one might have a case of  ill consequences as well as another a 707e can be secure.  This alters the face of the legal and social question, and I claim there  is a grievance for my profession too. It has been held hitherto when  there are ill consequences that it has been the fault of the doctor, of his  discrimination. But he is not the author of the lymph and I have shown  he can never warrant it: he errs when he does. He should never  make himself responsible for the rêsult.  What, then, is the practical consequence ? Suppression at all sacrifice  of the facts is too likely, because it means otherwise his great injury—  as it must be a personal charge. Were the principles here demonstrated  understood, or remembered, he would stand clear—if he took all right  care to guard his patient—as any other; for now the injured party would  impeach the law or system and not a particular man. He would charge  Vaccination, not a certain doctor ; and, as the latter would have no fear This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 50 The Operation of the  of ruin (no profession so depending on public feeling) from it, he might  have no objection it should be made known. ‘The present notion that  it is Malpractice of course prevents this; and, besides, places every  doctor in peril every time he vaccinates a child. It should be needful  only for him to prove that he took all available care.  The reason why the Public Vaccination Stations offer most of these  issues is, doubtless,—r. that such poisons in children are most frequent  among the Poor ; 2. they are more often (and necessarily,) neglected  afterwards ; 3. from the number, they are vaccinated with less leisure  than those done in private practice.  I was censured publicly in some quarters, as before hinted, for my certi-  ficate in Case VII, saying “consequent on Vaccination.” I did not mean  by this to say certainly Causatively, but that it followed upon it—whether  thus or coincidently might be inferred. ‘The -likelihood such a fact  furnished made it call for notice as a possible cause, to be impartial. It  was called “careless certification,” because I felt it my duty to record  the chain of influences on the infant’s health, that this one might be  remarked,—having had other cases in which I felt little doubt Vaccination  had been a cause of death, but in which, for want of proof, I did not  state it, as well as more of illness after it which did not actually, but  nearly, died.  The history of phthisis that was given when the mother was (as I  believe) frightened by official notice was unknown to a sister whom I  asked as to the family, off her guard in the presence of a Justice of the  Peace—who appeared like another man. But, granting this (as I am  disposed to), it will be seen by the foregoing that Zé does zof of all  hinder Vaccination being a cause of this death. 1 did not suppose com-  munication necessarily in this case, but it has been confidently held that  the presumption of decided disposition to it makes the Vaccination no  cause. Such a doctrine ignores the second mode of operation, of which  I think it a case. In short, a family history of, say, consumption need by  no means disprove Vaccination being a cause of the illness and, so, of  death. For such latent tendency might never have come out and without  another cause from without never could. Hence, it is most Z#Æe// to lead  to death in such, they being easily made il, and their illness being  fatal. I ask, then, in this case, why did the infant get phthisis when  it did? What influence acted upon it at the time of its falling off?  for to become ill of what was in its blood it needed an excitant.  Vaccination was performed at that time—that is, when some disturbing  influence must have troubled it; and, hence, it is highly likely that this  was the cause. In such possibility and the absence of other known  irritant, I do not think as truthful reporters for science we could omit  to mention it.  A few remarks may be made, in conclusion, as to its effect as a  preventive. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms I have notes of three cases in which it failed. In one, a man, there  was twice successful Vaccination and twice smallpox. Another was a  child aged 24. The third is Case No. XXI (not a clear one perhaps).—  See also No. LVI.  In the general, it seems remarkable the practice has not prevented the  disease’s recurrence. But I showed* before and after the epidemic of  1871 that it observed an average cycle of rotation of 3% years,—or had  for 30 years. This law is confirmed by a record of its visitation of  Kilmarnock t from about 1728 to '64—when we find much the same.  That was before the use of Vaccination, and it is remarkable also that I  found the statistics both for London and the whole country to give  the same result. I erred in concluding that. the demonstration of a law  of progression enabled us “to exonerate Vaccination from a charge” of  inefficiency ; for in the Same papers it was proved that epidemics of  smallpox might “be expected with considerable precision wŽŻaźever  means be adopted for their prevention or arrest” Only prejudice could  lead to such a false inference ; for the last consequence goes to show  that Vaccination has failed.  The present essay may illustrate the evils of the working of compulsion  and prove, if not that Vaccination is an ill necessarily, //Žažź 7ź ay n  any case be one—and, indeed, must in many. But the inference from  this position is general; since I leave to be judged how far that is a  safe act or system which may in any instance be unsafe, however in  others it do no harm, and whether an operation on the life of thousands  be justifiable should it injure gravely or kill but one of the number,  when it is impossible to prevent this and uncertain. which one it will be.  As before said, this harm follows z0 7z a/l, but in any ; for the excep-  tional cases that draw our notice are not and cannot be predicated—or,  often even, explained. And it is but too doubtful what number really  fall under the designation which is still practically disallowed by the  profession, —death or illness through Vaccination, whether as Że cause  or as a cause. The wise statesman and Christian will feel that to be  dangerous which may strike any one, and that this is serious when it is  life that is at stake.  I have here, also, emphasized the doctrine of latency of disease,  believing that it is much overlooked in relation to cowpox and of  great practical import in explaining its phenomena and problems, and  have ventured to urge that all persons inherit something,—which, if  so, is in many latent; and that, therefore, disease is dormant in all  but those in whom it is active,—the inference from which is that  Vaccination is never safe from the child. And it has been insisted  that by diseases and dispositions must be understood those not only  * Medical Times and Gazette, x871 and 1877.  t Vaccination Enquirer, recently. This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms 52 The Operation of the  bodily, but mental, and that the same dangers and caveats apply to  both.  I have shown how the present system gives no real protection,  though it aims to, as a compulsory one is bound to do—how it makes  no amends whatever for the great expenses, great physical suffering,  anxiety, and even libel, as well as neglect of other children (in the  case of the poor) which follow many times what is done under the  despotism of force. And such consequences are here seen to be,  evidently, most frequent ; for I have met with a good many and know  that, were I to enquire further, I should find many more. Calling on  a poor woman that I thought to be another whom I was seeking whose  child had suffered from Vaccination, it turned out that her own had  also ; so that I found another instead. This may give us an idea of  the great frequency of such cases. The parents are afraid to make  them known, and even will not eZ a visitor, often, unless very adroitly  addressed. Yet, such cases are spoken of by some who should best know  as if mythical, or due but to exaggeration and bigotry. But the foregoing  I believe to be trustworthy, and they were not spoken of usually in a heated  way. Could they be much exaggerated, some of them? Are all painful  records to be regarded thus? They are bad enough, indeed, to seem  so; but, yet, not too bad to be true. . Syphilis and scrofula would  produce—for they very often have—just such states.  The uncertain number and gravity of ill consequences as above through  What debilitates and what inflames,  as well as the danger of a charge for doing injury, may counterbalance  the profit by ø//Żez charges on this account; so that a doctor of small  practice might, like Paul with his baptism, thank God that he had vacci-  nated so few.  We cannot wonder, then, at a man of intelligence and position saying  (and writing), after what he had seez and suffered: “I consider it a  national sin to be compelled to have children vaccinated az f0 7;  such risks. I shall spend my life in prison (if necessary) before I  have one of 7y children vaccinated ! ”  In the evidence brought, I have spoken that which I know and  testified that which I have seen. Aazud ignota loguor. I have done  so because it was and had long been unknown and it was still  likely to be so, with other facts of the same kind and elsewhere.  But this was both partial and unhumane, when the nation by its  Parliament was about deciding the cause.  All great causes for their triumph need martyrs; it is expedient  that one die—alas ! that many do—for the people still. Surely the  hecatomb is sufficient, by this time, of new innocents meekly devoted  to’ establish the uncertainty and danger of what it is made a crime to  refuse ! The parent feels for his own child, and loves it, and knows This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms Vaceinal Virus Injuriously. 53  his trust for and rights over it, and does not lightly resist. It is an  ill thing to coerce and sø only compass the end. Force often makes  a blessing unwelcome or disbelieved—an injustice far more !  But, if other martyrs are called for, better one than so many. An  Aaron is needed—a Qzzuźus Curtius—to go in between the living and  the dead. I would spare them to their loved ones and country, by  an offering which I can make. It is done, though the cost has been  counted, in reliance on God. For a man’s duty is to his whole race  and to truth, and his labour should be to succour distress. This  lesson is taught us by chivalry no less than by Christ. Sa/us Zopuli  suprema lex *—and life may now be both taken and saved by the pen.  I have given witness and evidence for the nation in the trial of  this cause “without fear or favour,” being bound to faithfulness to  truth and my fellowmen before all. Who will blame me? Let the  facts (which some will recognise) be denied !  I would they might be.  * The highest law is the People’s health,  THE END.  PRINTED BY J. R, PAGE, 126, SOUTHGATE ROAD, N, This content downloaded from 148.88.247.59 on Tue, 24 May 2022 18:42:13 UTC All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms