The principal object of interest to supporters of our movement is beyond all doubt the Royal Vaccination Commission, which has already issued its Third Report, and is still taking evidence. The Royal Commission began to sit on Wednesday the 26th of June, 1889, and continued to sit every Wednesday until the 31st of July inclusive. The minutes of evidence taken during these sittings, with four appendices thereto, is embodied in the First Report of the Royal Commission. The evidence taken during these sittings was exclusively medical, the witnesses SIR JOHN SIMON, DR. WILLIAM OGLE, DR.THORNE THORNE, and DR.RAUCH. The Commission resumed its sittings on Wednesday, the 91h of October, and continued to sit every Wednesday, and occasionally on Fridays also, until the 11th of December inclusive, when the Commission adjourned until Wednesday, the 22nd of January, 1890, from which time the Commission sat every Wednesday until the 26th of March ; thence on Wednesdays, from the ¡6th of April to the 14th of May, and from the at h of June to the 2nd of July, in the year 1890. The evidence taken at the sittings from the 9th of October, 1889, to the 19th of February, 1890, is comprised in the Second Report. The evidence taken at the sittings from the ¡9th of February to the 2nd of July, 1890, is comprised in the Third Report of the Commission. The witnesses may be divided into three categories—viz., the medical and official experts of the Local Government Board ; the independent medical and other witnesses ; and the witnesses who have testified to the failure, mischief, and injustice of the compulsory law. 9 As a carefully and ably prepared abstract of the evidence, by MR. ALFRED MILNES, has appeared in the columns of the Vaccination it will not be necessary to do more on this occasion than to record the names of the witnesses, with the dates upon which they respectively gave their evidence.  Witnesses who have testified before the ROYAL COMMISSION appointed to inquire into the subject of VACCINATION. OBITUARY. On this, as on a similar occasion last year, we have to deplore the loss of three earnest and devoted friends of our movement. MR. WILLIAM WHITE, formerly Editor of the Vaccination Inquirer and author of 7ht Story of a Great Delusion, died on the 29th of May, 1890. Notices of his life and work will be found in the Vaccination Inquirer for July, 1890, pp. 53, 56, 57. We have also to lament the death of DR. OIDTMANN, of Linnich, the leader of the Anti-Vaccination party in Germany, and a faithful supporter of International Anti-Vaccination Congresses. The obituary notice of DR. OIDTMANN will be found on pp. 123, 124 of the Vaccination Inquirer for October, 1890. Lastly, we have to advert to the terrible loss which has fallen upon us in the death of MR.CHARLES BRADLAUGH, M.P., who died on the 30th of January in the present year. To his exertions in the cause of humanity, and not least to his unwearied persistency '3 in exposing the fallacies oí the vaccine compulsionists, he may be said to have sacrificed his life. Three excellent notices of MR. BRADLAUGH, from MR. ALFRED MILNES, MR. ALEXANDER WHEELER, and DR. W. J. COLLINS, respectively, appear in the Vaccination Inquirer for March, 1891, pp. 208-210. THE HOUSEHOLD CENSUS. As is well known to our members, household censuses for several years past have been made in various districts, as to the propriety of Vaccination and its compulsory enforcement. In answer to a question submitted by Mr. CHARLES BRADLAUGH, with regard to these census returns (Q. 10,309), MR. TEBB stated, in his evidence before the Royal Commission, that, up to the end of 1889, 2,138 cases of injury, and 546 deaths, had been reported. Since then the number has been considerably increased, as will be shown in a circular shortly to be published. Censuses have been taken during the past year at the following places :— 1. Cleckheaton.— At this place 186 declared themselves to be in favour of Vaccination, and 837 against it. On the question of making Vaccination Compulsory, 77 declared that it ought to be Compulsory, and 1,011 declared themselves against Compulsory Vaccination. Eleven deaths and nineteen cases of injury were reported as being due, in the opinion of the informants, to Vaccination. 2. Abinger and Shere, Surrey.—In this district there were found to be 205 persons who unequivocally approve of Vaccination ; nine who approved of it subject to qualifications ; and 471 who declared themselves against it. Fifty-two declared themselves unequivocally in favour of Compulsion ; four declared themselves in favour of Compulsion, but subject to qualifications; and 575 declared themselves against Compulsion. Seventeen persons reported cases of injury in their own families from Vaccination ; four reported death from Vaccination, and four had had smallpox after Vaccination. Ruskington, Lincolnshire.— In this district there were 23 in favour of Vaccination, and ten against ; ten in favour of Compulsion, and 224 against it. 4. Oldbury and Langley.— In this district 1.597 persons declared themselves opposed to Vaccination, and 229 in favour of it. There were 1,745 persons opposed to Compulsion, and 86 in its favour. Sixty-one cases of serious injury, of which 17 terminated fatally, were reported as occurring in the immediate families of the narrators. 5. Stroud.—In this district there were 163 in favour of Vaccination, and 450 against it ; 81 in favour of Compulsion, and 550 against it. Thirty-two cases of injury, with four deaths, were returned. ROYAL COMMISSION FUND. In April, 1889, the Government agreed to appoint a Royal Commission to inquire into the working of the Vaccination Acts, and the results of Vaccination. The Government offer no assistance or advice for instituting an impartial investigation, but on the contrary, use all the machinery of the Stale and the power of vested interests to prop up the Vaccination system. It was necessary, therefore, to organize a Special Committee, and to arrange for Standing Counsel to prepare briefs for the cross-examination of witnesses, and to be in constant attendance during the Sittings. Also to employ an organizing Secretary, Statisticians, and other experts, to examine the statistical evidence introduced by the Government, and to assist our witnesses, so heavily handicapped in this important inquisition. This, it is needless to say, involved a very large extra expenditure, and it was necessary to make a special appeal to the liberality of opponents of Compulsory vaccination throughout the country. The following is a list of the contributions of £ro and upwards, in which it will be seen how deeply our cause is again indebted '5 to the liberality of the Countess de Noailles at this crisis. A complete list of subscriptions, with audited account, will issued in due course. £ s. d. Countess de Noailles (2nd THIS FUND is now nearly exhausted, and as the Commission has not nearly completed its work, (most of our medical witnesses 16 having yet to be heard,) I am obliged to make a further and urgent appeal to our friends to continue their generous help, without which it will be impossible to meet the heavy current outlay. There are many wealthy opponents of Compulsory Vaccination, and others, who have expressed sympathy with our cause, who have done nothing to help us financially, and whose generous co-operation we now earnestly solicit. WILLIAM TEBB, PUBLIC MEETINGS. Public Meetings and Debates have been held in all parts of the country, and a growing interest is manifested in the question, as is shown by the election of Guardians who are opposed to the prosecution of their conscientious fellow citizens for seeking to protect their children from the risks of the Jennerian rite. About 70 towns and Poor Law Unions have adopted resolutions against the enforcement of Vaccination. The attention of the Executive Committee has been again drawn to the urgent need for the appointment of a travelling agent to act as a representative of the Society, and as a means of communication between the various local and provincial bodies, by frequent and periodical visits, for the diffusion of information, for securing unity of action, collecting funds for general objects of the movement, and such special purposes as may from time to time be required. The difficulty in carrying out this suggestion has arisen partly from the want of the necessary funds, and partly the difficulty in finding a competent and reliable person for so responsible a work, and we shall feel grateful for any help or suggestions in this direction. In conclusion, the Executive Committee desire to record their grateful thanks to the COUNTESS DE NOAILLES, for her generous aid to the London Society, and more especially in carrying on the Vaccination Inquirer and to MR. ALFRED MILNES, for his able conduct of that journal  SUBSCRIPTIONS & DONATIONS DURING THE YEAR ENDING MARCH 31st, 1891 